--- Page 1 ---
CCCCC111110000022222
Social Security
(Minimum Standards)
Convention, 1952
1

--- Page 2 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
Copyright © International Labour Organization 2008
Cetakan Pertama, 2008
Publications of the International Labour Office enjoy copyright under Protocol 2 of the Universal Copyright
Convention. Nevertheless, short excerpts from them may be reproduced without authorization, on condition
that the source is indicated. For rights of reproduction or translation, application should be made to ILO Publications
(Rights and Permissions), International Labour Office, CH-1211 Geneva 22, Switzerland, or by email:
pubdroit@ilo.org. The International Labour Office welcomes such applications.
Libraries, institutions and other users registered with reproduction rights organizations may make copies in
accordance with the licences issued to them for this purpose. Visit www.ifrro.org to find the reproduction rights
organization in your country.
International Labour Organization
“C102-Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952”
International Labour Organization, 2008
ISBN 978-92-2-021484-8 (print)
978-92-2-021485-5 (web pdf)
Also available in Bahasa Indonesia: “ K102 - Konvensi ILO No. 102 Tahun 1952 mengenai (Standar Minimal) Jaminan
Sosial”.
Jakarta, 2008
ILO Cataloguing in Publication Data
The designations employed in ILO publications, which are in conformity with United Nations practice, and the
presentation of material therein do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the
International Labour Office concerning the legal status of any country, area or territory or of its authorities, or
concerning the delimitation of its frontiers.
The responsibility for opinions expressed in signed articles, studies and other contributions rests solely with their
authors, and publication does not constitute an endorsement by the International Labour Office of the opinions
expressed in them.
Reference to names of firms and commercial products and processes does not imply their endorsement by the
International Labour Office, and any failure to mention a particular firm, commercial product or process is not
a sign of disapproval.
ILO publications and electronic products can be obtained through major booksellers or ILO local offices in many
countries, or direct from ILO Publications, International Labour Office, CH-1211 Geneva 22, Switzerland. Catalogues
or lists of new publications are available free of charge from the above address, or by email: pubvente@ilo.org
Visit our website: www.ilo.org/publns
Printed in Indonesia
2

--- Page 3 ---
Foreword
3

--- Page 4 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
4

--- Page 5 ---
CCCCC111110000022222
Social Security (Minimum Standards)
Convention, 1952
Convention concerning Minimum Standards of
Social Security
(Note: Date of coming into force: 27:04:1955.)
Convention: C102
Place: Geneva
Session of the Conference:35
Date of adoption: 28:06:1952
Subject classification: Social Security
Subject: Social Security
Status: Up-to-date instrument
5

--- Page 6 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
The General Conference of the International Labour Organisation,
Having been convened at Geneva by the Governing Body of the International Labour
Office, and having met in its Thirty-fifth Session on 4 June 1952, and
Having decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to minimum
standards of social security, which are included in the fifth item on the agenda of the
session, and
Having determined that these proposals shall take the form of an international
Convention,
adopts this twenty-eighth day of June of the year one thousand nine hundred and
fifty-two the following Convention, which may be cited as the Social Security (Minimum
Standards) Convention, 1952:
6

--- Page 7 ---
PART I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1
1. In this Convention—
(a) the term prescribed means determined by or in virtue of national laws
or regulations;
(b) the term residence means ordinary residence in the territory of the
Member and the term resident means a person ordinarily resident in
the territory of the Member;
(c) the term wife means a wife who is maintained by her husband;
(d) the term widow means a woman who was maintained by her husband
at the time of his death;
(e) the term child means a child under school-leaving age or under 15 years
of age, as may be prescribed;
(f) the term qualifying period means a period of contribution, or a period
of employment, or a period of residence, or any combination thereof, as
may be prescribed.
2. In Articles 10, 34 and 49 the term benefit means either direct benefit in the
form of care or indirect benefit consisting of a reimbursement of the expenses
borne by the person concerned.
Article 2
Each Member for which this Convention is in force—
(a) shall comply with—
(i) Part I;
(ii) at least three of Parts II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX and X, including at least
one of Parts IV, V, VI, IX and X;
(iii) the relevant provisions of Parts XI, XII and XIII; and
(iv) Part XIV; and
(b) shall specify in its ratification in respect of which of Parts II to X it accepts the
obligations of the Convention.
7

--- Page 8 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
Article 3
1. A Member whose economy and medical facilities are insufficiently developed
may, if and for so long as the competent authority considers necessary, avail
itself, by a declaration appended to its ratification, of the temporary exceptions
provided for in the following Articles: 9 (d) ; 12 (2); 15 (d); 18 (2); 21 (c); 27 (d)
; 33 (b); 34 (3); 41 (d); 48 (c); 55 (d); and 61 (d).
2. Each Member which has made a declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article
shall include in the annual report upon the application of this Convention
submitted under Article 22 of the Constitution of the International Labour
Organisation a statement, in respect of each exception of which it avails itself—
(a) that its reason for doing so subsists; or
(b) that it renounces its right to avail itself of the exception in question as
from a stated date.
Article 4
1. Each Member which has ratified this Convention may subsequently notify the
Director-General of the International Labour Office that it accepts the obligations
of the Convention in respect of one or more of Parts II to X not already specified
in its ratification.
2. The undertakings referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be deemed to
be an integral part of the ratification and to have the force of ratification as
from the date of notification.
Article 5
Where, for the purpose of compliance with any of the Parts II to X of this Convention
which are to be covered by its ratification, a Member is required to protect prescribed
classes of persons constituting not less than a specified percentage of employees or
residents, the Member shall satisfy itself, before undertaking to comply with any
such Part, that the relevant percentage is attained.
Article 6
For the purpose of compliance with Parts II, III, IV, V, VIII (in so far as it relates to
medical care), IX or X of this Convention, a Member may take account of protection
8

--- Page 9 ---
effected by means of insurance which, although not made compulsory by national
laws or regulations for the persons to be protected—
(a) is supervised by the public authorities or administered, in accordance with
prescribed standards, by joint operation of employers and workers;
(b) covers a substantial part of the persons whose earnings do not exceed those of
the skilled manual male employee; and
(c) complies, in conjunction with other forms of protection, where appropriate,
with the relevant provisions of the Convention.
PART II. MEDICAL CARE
Article 7
Each Member for which this Part of this Convention is in force shall secure to the
persons protected the provision of benefit in respect of a condition requiring medical
care of a preventive or curative nature in accordance with the following Articles of
this Part.
Article 8
The contingencies covered shall include any morbid condition, whatever its cause,
and pregnancy and confinement and their consequences.
Article 9
The persons protected shall comprise—
(a) prescribed classes of employees, constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all
employees, and also their wives and children; or
(b) prescribed classes of economically active population, constituting not less than
20 per cent. of all residents, and also their wives and children; or
(c) prescribed classes of residents, constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all
residents; or
(d) where a declaration made in virtue of Article 3 is in force, prescribed classes of
employees constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all employees in industrial
workplaces employing 20 persons or more, and also their wives and children.
9

--- Page 10 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
Article 10
1. The benefit shall include at least—
(a) in case of a morbid condition—
(i) general practitioner care, including domiciliary visiting;
(ii) specialist care at hospitals for in-patients and out-patients, and such
specialist care as may be available outside hospitals;
(iii) the essential pharmaceutical supplies as prescribed by medical or other
qualified practitioners; and
(iv) hospitalisation where necessary; and
(b) in case of pregnancy and confinement and their consequences—
(i) pre-natal, confinement and post-natal care either by medical
practitioners or by qualified midwives; and
(ii) hospitalisation where necessary.
2. The beneficiary or his breadwinner may be required to share in the cost of the
medical care the beneficiary receives in respect of a morbid condition; the rules
concerning such cost-sharing shall be so designed as to avoid hardship.
3. The benefit provided in accordance with this Article shall be afforded with a
view to maintaining, restoring or improving the health of the person protected
and his ability to work and to attend to his personal needs.
4. The institutions or Government departments administering the benefit shall, by
such means as may be deemed appropriate, encourage the persons protected
to avail themselves of the general health services placed at their disposal by the
public authorities or by other bodies recognised by the public authorities.
Article 11
The benefit specified in Article 10 shall, in a contingency covered, be secured at least
to a person protected who has completed, or whose breadwinner has completed,
such qualifying period as may be considered necessary to preclude abuse.
Article 12
1. The benefit specified in Article 10 shall be granted throughout the contingency
covered, except that, in case of a morbid condition, its duration may be limited
to 26 weeks in each case, but benefit shall not be suspended while a sickness
benefit continues to be paid, and provision shall be made to enable the limit to
be extended for prescribed diseases recognised as entailing prolonged care.
10

--- Page 11 ---
2. Where a declaration made in virtue of Article 3 is in force, the duration of the
benefit may be limited to 13 weeks in each case.
PART III. SICKNESS BENEFIT
Article 13
Each Member for which this Part of this Convention is in force shall secure to the
persons protected the provision of sickness benefit in accordance with the following
Articles of this Part.
Article 14
The contingency covered shall include incapacity for work resulting from a morbid
condition and involving suspension of earnings, as defined by national laws or
regulations.
Article 15
The persons protected shall comprise—
(a) prescribed classes of employees, constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all
employees; or
(b) prescribed classes of the economically active population, constituting not less
than 20 per cent. of all residents; or
(c) all residents whose means during the contingency do not exceed limits prescribed
in such a manner as to comply with the requirements of Article 67; or
(d) where a declaration made in virtue of Article 3 is in force, prescribed classes of
employees, constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all employees in industrial
workplaces employing 20 persons or more.
Article 16
1. Where classes of employees or classes of the economically active population are
protected, the benefit shall be a periodical payment calculated in such a manner
as to comply either with the requirements of Article 65 or with the requirements
of Article 66.
11

--- Page 12 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
2. Where all residents whose means during the contingency do not exceed
prescribed limits are protected, the benefit shall be a periodical payment
calculated in such a manner as to comply with the requirements of Article 67.
Article 17
The benefit specified in Article 16 shall, in a contingency covered, be secured at least
to a person protected who has completed such qualifying period as may be considered
necessary to preclude abuse.
Article 18
1. The benefit specified in Article 16 shall be granted throughout the contingency,
except that the benefit may be limited to 26 weeks in each case of sickness, in
which event it need not be paid for the first three days of suspension of earnings.
2. Where a declaration made in virtue of Article 3 is in force, the duration of the
benefit may be limited—
(a) to such period that the total number of days for which the sickness benefit
is granted in any year is not less than ten times the average number of
persons protected in that year; or
(b) to 13 weeks in each case of sickness, in which event it need not be paid
for the first three days of suspension of earnings.
PART IV. UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT
Article 19
Each Member for which this Part of this Convention is in force shall secure to the
persons protected the provision of unemployment benefit in accordance with the
following Articles of this Part.
Article 20
The contingency covered shall include suspension of earnings, as defined by national
laws or regulations, due to inability to obtain suitable employment in the case of a
person protected who is capable of, and available for, work.
12

--- Page 13 ---
Article 21
The persons protected shall comprise—
(a) prescribed classes of employees, constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all
employees; or
(b) all residents whose means during the contingency do not exceed limits prescribed
in such a manner as to comply with the requirements of Article 67; or
(c) where a declaration made in virtue of Article 3 is in force, prescribed classes of
employees, constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all employees in industrial
workplaces employing 20 persons or more.
Article 22
1. Where classes of employees are protected, the benefit shall be a periodical
payment calculated in such manner as to comply either with the requirements
of Article 65 or with the requirements of Article 66.
2. Where all residents whose means during the contingency do not exceed
prescribed limits are protected, the benefit shall be a periodical payment
calculated in such a manner as to comply with the requirements of Article 67.
Article 23
The benefit specified in Article 22 shall, in a contingency covered, be secured at least
to a person protected who has completed such qualifying period as may be considered
necessary to preclude abuse.
Article 24
1. The benefit specified in Article 22 shall be granted throughout the contingency,
except that its duration may be limited—
(a) where classes of employees are protected, to 13 weeks within a period of
12 months, or
(b) where all residents whose means during the contingency do not exceed
prescribed limits are protected, to 26 weeks within a period of 12 months.
2. Where national laws or regulations provide that the duration of the benefit shall
vary with the length of the contribution period and/or the benefit previously
received within a prescribed period, the provisions of subparagraph (a) of
13

--- Page 14 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
paragraph 1 shall be deemed to be fulfilled if the average duration of benefit is
at least 13 weeks within a period of 12 months.
3. The benefit need not be paid for a waiting period of the first seven days in each
case of suspension of earnings, counting days of unemployment before and
after temporary employment lasting not more than a prescribed period as part
of the same case of suspension of earnings.
4. In the case of seasonal workers the duration of the benefit and the waiting
period may be adapted to their conditions of employment.
PART V. OLD-AGE BENEFIT
Article 25
Each Member for which this Part of this Convention is in force shall secure to the
persons protected the provision of old-age benefit in accordance with the following
Articles of this Part.
Article 26
1. The contingency covered shall be survival beyond a prescribed age.
2. The prescribed age shall be not more than 65 years or such higher age as may
be fixed by the competent authority with due regard to the working ability of
elderly persons in the country concerned.
3. National laws or regulations may provide that the benefit of a person otherwise
entitled to it may be suspended if such person is engaged in any prescribed
gainful activity or that the benefit, if contributory, may be reduced where the
earnings of the beneficiary exceed a prescribed amount and, if non-contributory,
may be reduced where the earnings of the beneficiary or his other means or the
two taken together exceed a prescribed amount.
Article 27
The persons protected shall comprise—
(a) prescribed classes of employees, constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all
employees; or
14

--- Page 15 ---
(b) prescribed classes of the economically active population, constituting not less
than 20 per cent. of all residents; or
(c) all residents whose means during the contingency do not exceed limits prescribed
in such a manner as to comply with the requirements of Article 67; or
(d) where a declaration made in virtue of Article 3 is in force, prescribed classes of
employees, constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all employees in industrial
workplaces employing 20 persons or more.
Article 28
The benefit shall be a periodical payment calculated as follows:
(a) where classes of employees or classes of the economically active population are
protected, in such a manner as to comply either with the requirements of Article
65 or with the requirements of Article 66;
(b) where all residents whose means during the contingency do not exceed prescribed
limits are protected, in such a manner as to comply with the requirements of
Article 67.
Article 29
1. The benefit specified in Article 28 shall, in a contingency covered, be secured at
least—
(a) to a person protected who has completed, prior to the contingency, in
accordance with prescribed rules, a qualifying period which may be 30
years of contribution or employment, or 20 years of residence; or
(b) where, in principle, all economically active persons are protected, to a
person protected who has completed a prescribed qualifying period of
contribution and in respect of whom, while he was of working age, the
prescribed yearly average number of contributions has been paid.
2. Where the benefit referred to in paragraph 1 is conditional upon a minimum
period of contribution or employment, a reduced benefit shall be secured at
least—
(a) to a person protected who has completed, prior to the contingency, in
accordance with prescribed rules, a qualifying period of 15 years of
contribution or employment; or
15

--- Page 16 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
(b) where, in principle, all economically active persons are protected, to a
person protected who has completed a prescribed qualifying period of
contribution and in respect of whom, while he was of working age, half
the yearly average number of contributions prescribed in accordance
with subparagraph (b) of paragraph 1 of this Article has been paid.
3. The requirements of paragraph 1 of this Article shall be deemed to be satisfied
where a benefit calculated in conformity with the requirements of Part XI but at
a percentage of ten points lower than shown in the Schedule appended to that
Part for the standard beneficiary concerned is secured at least to a person
protected who has completed, in accordance with prescribed rules, ten years of
contribution or employment, or five years of residence.
4. A proportional reduction of the percentage indicated in the Schedule appended
to Part XI may be effected where the qualifying period for the benefit
corresponding to the reduced percentage exceeds ten years of contribution or
employment but is less than 30 years of contribution or employment; if such
qualifying period exceeds 15 years, a reduced benefit shall be payable in
conformity with paragraph 2 of this Article.
5. Where the benefit referred to in paragraphs 1, 3 or 4 of this Article is conditional
upon a minimum period of contribution or employment, a reduced benefit
shall be payable under prescribed conditions to a person protected who, by
reason only of his advanced age when the provisions concerned in the application
of this Part come into force, has not satisfied the conditions prescribed in
accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, unless a benefit in conformity with
the provisions of paragraphs 1, 3 or 4 of this Article is secured to such person at
an age higher than the normal age.
Article 30
The benefits specified in Articles 28 and 29 shall be granted throughout the
contingency.
16

--- Page 17 ---
PART VI. EMPLOYMENT INJURY BENEFIT
Article 31
Each Member for which this Part of this Convention is in force shall secure to the
persons protected the provision of employment injury benefit in accordance with the
following Articles of this Part.
Article 32
The contingencies covered shall include the following where due to accident or a
prescribed disease resulting from employment:
(a) a morbid condition;
(b) incapacity for work resulting from such a condition and involving suspension of
earnings, as defined by national laws or regulations;
(c) total loss of earning capacity or partial loss thereof in excess of a prescribed
degree, likely to be permanent, or corresponding loss of faculty; and
(d) the loss of support suffered by the widow or child as the result of the death of
the breadwinner; in the case of a widow, the right to benefit may be made
conditional on her being presumed, in accordance with national laws or
regulations, to be incapable of self-support.
Article 33
The persons protected shall comprise—
(a) prescribed classes of employees, constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all
employees, and, for benefit in respect of death of the breadwinner, also their
wives and children; or
(b) where a declaration made in virtue of Article 3 is in force, prescribed classes of
employees, constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all employees in industrial
workplaces employing 20 persons or more, and, for benefit in respect of death
of the breadwinner, also their wives and children.
17

--- Page 18 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
Article 34
1. In respect of a morbid condition, the benefit shall be medical care as specified
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article.
2. The medical care shall comprise—
(a) general practitioner and specialist in-patient care and out-patient care,
including domiciliary visiting;
(b) dental care;
(c) nursing care at home or in hospital or other medical institutions;
(d) maintenance in hospitals, convalescent homes, sanatoria or other medical
institutions;
(e) dental, pharmaceutical and other medical or surgical supplies, including
prosthetic appliances, kept in repair, and eyeglasses; and
(f) the care furnished by members of such other professions as may at any
time be legally recognised as allied to the medical profession, under the
supervision of a medical or dental practitioner.
3. Where a declaration made in virtue of Article 3 is in force, the medical care shall
include at least—
(a) general practitioner care, including domiciliary visiting;
(b) specialist care at hospitals for in-patients and out-patients, and such
specialist care as may be available outside hospitals;
(c) the essential pharmaceutical supplies as prescribed by a medical or other
qualified practitioner; and
(d) hospitalisation where necessary.
4. The medical care provided in accordance with the preceding paragraphs shall
be afforded with a view to maintaining, restoring or improving the health of
the person protected and his ability to work and to attend to his personal needs.
Article 35
1. The institutions or Government departments administering the medical care
shall co-operate, wherever appropriate, with the general vocational rehabilitation
services, with a view to the re-establishment of handicapped persons in suitable
work.
2. National laws or regulations may authorise such institutions or departments to
ensure provision for the vocational rehabilitation of handicapped persons.
18

--- Page 19 ---
Article 36
1. In respect of incapacity for work, total loss of earning capacity likely to be
permanent or corresponding loss of faculty, or the death of the breadwinner,
the benefit shall be a periodical payment calculated in such a manner as to
comply either with the requirements of Article 65 or with the requirements of
Article 66.
2. In case of partial loss of earning capacity likely to be permanent, or corresponding
loss of faculty, the benefit, where payable, shall be a periodical payment
representing a suitable proportion of that specified for total loss of earning
capacity or corresponding loss of faculty.
3. The periodical payment may be commuted for a lump sum—
(a) where the degree of incapacity is slight; or
(b) where the competent authority is satisfied that the lump sum will be
properly utilised.
Article 37
The benefit specified in Articles 34 and 36 shall, in a contingency covered, be secured
at least to a person protected who was employed in the territory of the Member at
the time of the accident if the injury is due to accident or at the time of contracting
the disease if the injury is due to a disease and, for periodical payments in respect of
death of the breadwinner, to the widow and children of such person.
Article 38
The benefit specified in Articles 34 and 36 shall be granted throughout the
contingency, except that, in respect of incapacity for work, the benefit need not be
paid for the first three days in each case of suspension of earnings.
19

--- Page 20 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
PART VII. FAMILY BENEFIT
Article 39
Each Member for which this Part of this Convention is in force shall secure to the
persons protected the provision of family benefit in accordance with the following
Articles of this Part.
Article 40
The contingency covered shall be responsibility for the maintenance of children as
prescribed.
Article 41
The persons protected shall comprise—
(a) prescribed classes of employees, constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all
employees; or
(b) prescribed classes of the economically active population, constituting not less
than 20 per cent. of all residents; or
(c) all residents whose means during the contingency do not exceed prescribed
limits; or
(d) where a declaration made in virtue of Article 3 is in force, prescribed classes of
employees, constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all employees in industrial
workplaces employing 20 persons or more.
Article 42
The benefit shall be—
(a) a periodical payment granted to any person protected having completed the
prescribed qualifying period; or
(b) the provision to or in respect of children, of food, clothing, housing, holidays or
domestic help; or
(c) a combination of (a) and (b).
20

--- Page 21 ---
Article 43
The benefit specified in Article 42 shall be secured at least to a person protected
who, within a prescribed period, has completed a qualifying period which may be
three months of contribution or employment, or one year of residence, as may be
prescribed.
Article 44
The total value of the benefits granted in accordance with Article 42 to the persons
protected shall be such as to represent—
(a) 3 per cent. of the wage of an ordinary adult male labourer, as determined in
accordance with the rules laid down in Article 66, multiplied by the total number
of children of persons protected; or
(b) 1.5 per cent. of the said wage, multiplied by the total number of children of all
residents.
Article 45
Where the benefit consists of a periodical payment, it shall be granted throughout
the contingency.
PART VIII. MATERNITY BENEFIT
Article 46
Each Member for which this Part of this Convention is in force shall secure to the
persons protected the provision of maternity benefit in accordance with the following
Articles of this Part.
Article 47
The contingencies covered shall include pregnancy and confinement and their
consequences, and suspension of earnings, as defined by national laws or regulations,
resulting therefrom.
21

--- Page 22 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
Article 48
The persons protected shall comprise—
(a) all women in prescribed classes of employees, which classes constitute not less
than 50 per cent. of all employees and, for maternity medical benefit, also the
wives of men in these classes; or
(b) all women in prescribed classes of the economically active population, which
classes constitute not less than 20 per cent. of all residents, and, for maternity
medical benefit, also the wives of men in these classes; or
(c) where a declaration made in virtue of Article 3 is in force, all women in prescribed
classes of employees, which classes constitute not less than 50 per cent. of all
employees in industrial workplaces employing 20 persons or more, and, for
maternity medical benefit, also the wives of men in these classes.
Article 49
1. In respect of pregnancy and confinement and their consequences, the maternity
medical benefit shall be medical care as specified in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this
Article.
2. The medical care shall include at least—
(a) pre-natal, confinement and post-natal care either by medical practitioners
or by qualified midwives; and
(b) hospitalisation where necessary.
3. The medical care specified in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be afforded with
a view to maintaining, restoring or improving the health of the woman protected
and her ability to work and to attend to her personal needs.
4. The institutions or Government departments administering the maternity medical
benefit shall, by such means as may be deemed appropriate, encourage the
women protected to avail themselves of the general health services placed at
their disposal by the public authorities or by other bodies recognised by the
public authorities.
Article 50
In respect of suspension of earnings resulting from pregnancy and from confinement
and their consequences, the benefit shall be a periodical payment calculated in such
22

--- Page 23 ---
a manner as to comply either with the requirements of Article 65 or with the
requirements of Article 66. The amount of the periodical payment may vary in the
course of the contingency, subject to the average rate thereof complying with these
requirements.
Article 51
The benefit specified in Articles 49 and 50 shall, in a contingency covered, be secured
at least to a woman in the classes protected who has completed such qualifying
period as may be considered necessary to preclude abuse, and the benefit specified
in Article 49 shall also be secured to the wife of a man in the classes protected where
the latter has completed such qualifying period.
Article 52
The benefit specified in Articles 49 and 50 shall be granted throughout the
contingency, except that the periodical payment may be limited to 12 weeks, unless
a longer period of abstention from work is required or authorised by national laws or
regulations, in which event it may not be limited to a period less than such longer
period.
PART IX. INVALIDITY BENEFIT
Article 53
Each Member for which this Part of this Convention is in force shall secure to the
persons protected the provision of invalidity benefit in accordance with the following
Articles of this Part.
Article 54
The contingency covered shall include inability to engage in any gainful activity, to
an extent prescribed, which inability is likely to be permanent or persists after the
exhaustion of sickness benefit.
23

--- Page 24 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
Article 55
The persons protected shall comprise—
(a) prescribed classes of employees, constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all
employees; or
(b) prescribed classes of the economically active population, constituting not less
than 20 per cent. of all residents; or
(c) all residents whose means during the contingency do not exceed limits prescribed
in such a manner as to comply with the requirements of Article 67; or
(d) where a declaration made in virtue of Article 3 is in force, prescribed classes of
employees, constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all employees in industrial
workplaces employing 20 persons or more.
Article 56
The benefit shall be a periodical payment calculated as follows:
(a) where classes of employees or classes of the economically active population are
protected, in such a manner as to comply either with the requirements of Article
65 or with the requirements of Article 66;
(b) where all residents whose means during the contingency do not exceed prescribed
limits are protected, in such a manner as to comply with the requirements of
Article 67.
Article 57
1. The benefit specified in Article 56 shall, in a contingency covered, be secured at
least—
(a) to a person protected who has completed, prior to the contingency, in
accordance with prescribed rules, a qualifying period which may be 15
years of contribution or employment, or 10 years of residence; or
(b) where, in principle, all economically active persons are protected, to a
person protected who has completed a qualifying period of three years
of contribution and in respect of whom, while he was of working age,
the prescribed yearly average number of contributions has been paid.
24

--- Page 25 ---
2. Where the benefit referred to in paragraph 1 is conditional upon a minimum
period of contribution or employment, a reduced benefit shall be secured at
least—
(a) to a person protected who has completed, prior to the contingency, in
accordance with prescribed rules, a qualifying period of five years of
contribution or employment; or
(b) where, in principle, all economically active persons are protected, to a
person protected who has completed a qualifying period of three years
of contribution and in respect of whom, while he was of working age,
half the yearly average number of contributions prescribed in accordance
with subparagraph (b) of paragraph 1 of this Article has been paid.
3. The requirements of paragraph 1 of this Article shall be deemed to be satisfied
where a benefit calculated in conformity with the requirements of Part XI but at
a percentage of ten points lower than shown in the Schedule appended to that
Part for the standard beneficiary concerned is secured at least to a person
protected who has completed, in accordance with prescribed rules, five years of
contribution, employment or residence.
4. A proportional reduction of the percentage indicated in the Schedule appended
to Part XI may be effected where the qualifying period for the pension
corresponding to the reduced percentage exceeds five years of contribution or
employment but is less than 15 years of contribution or employment; a reduced
pension shall be payable in conformity with paragraph 2 of this Article.
Article 58
The benefit specified in Articles 56 and 57 shall be granted throughout the contingency
or until an old-age benefit becomes payable.
25

--- Page 26 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
PART X. SURVIVORS’ BENEFIT
Article 59
Each Member for which this Part of this Convention is in force shall secure to the
persons protected the provision of survivors’ benefit in accordance with the following
Articles of this Part.
Article 60
1. The contingency covered shall include the loss of support suffered by the widow
or child as the result of the death of the breadwinner; in the case of a widow,
the right to benefit may be made conditional on her being presumed, in
accordance with national laws or regulations, to be incapable of self-support.
2. National laws or regulations may provide that the benefit of a person otherwise
entitled to it may be suspended if such person is engaged in any prescribed
gainful activity or that the benefit, if contributory, may be reduced where the
earnings of the beneficiary exceed a prescribed amount, and, if non-contributory,
may be reduced where the earnings of the beneficiary or his other means or the
two taken together exceed a prescribed amount.
Article 61
The persons protected shall comprise—
(a) the wives and the children of breadwinners in prescribed classes of employees,
which classes constitute not less than 50 per cent. of all employees; or
(b) the wives and the children of breadwinners in prescribed classes of the
economically active population, which classes constitute not less than 20 per
cent. of all residents; or
(c) all resident widows and resident children who have lost their breadwinner and
whose means during the contingency do not exceed limits prescribed in such a
manner as to comply with the requirements of Article 67; or
(d) where a declaration made in virtue of Article 3 is in force, the wives and the
children of breadwinners in prescribed classes of employees, which classes
constitute not less than 50 per cent. of all employees in industrial workplaces
employing 20 persons or more.
26

--- Page 27 ---
Article 62
The benefit shall be a periodical payment calculated as follows:
(a) where classes of employees or classes of the economically active population are
protected, in such a manner as to comply either with the requirements of Article
65 or with the requirements of Article 66;
(b) where all residents whose means during the contingency do not exceed prescribed
limits are protected, in such a manner as to comply with the requirements of
Article 67.
Article 63
1. The benefit specified in Article 62 shall, in a contingency covered, be secured at
least—
(a) to a person protected whose breadwinner has completed, in accordance
with prescribed rules, a qualifying period which may be 15 years of
contribution or employment, or 10 years of residence; or
(b) where, in principle, the wives and children of all economically active
persons are protected, to a person protected whose breadwinner has
completed a qualifying period of three years of contribution and in respect
of whose breadwinner, while he was of working age, the prescribed yearly
average number of contributions has been paid.
2. Where the benefit referred to in paragraph 1 is conditional upon a minimum
period of contribution or employment, a reduced benefit shall be secured at
least—
(a) to a person protected whose breadwinner has completed, in accordance
with prescribed rules, a qualifying period of five years of contribution or
employment; or
(b) where, in principle, the wives and children of all economically active
persons are protected, to a person protected whose breadwinner has
completed a qualifying period of three years of contribution and in respect
of whose breadwinner, while he was of working age, half the yearly
average number of contributions prescribed in accordance with
subparagraph (b) of paragraph 1 of this Article has been paid.
27

--- Page 28 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
3. The requirements of paragraph 1 of this Article shall be deemed to be satisfied
where a benefit calculated in conformity with the requirements of Part XI but a
percentage of ten points lower than shown in the Schedule appended to that
Part for the standard beneficiary concerned is secured at least to a person
protected whose breadwinner has completed, in accordance with prescribed
rules, five years of contribution, employment or residence.
4. A proportional reduction of the percentage indicated in the Schedule appended
to Part XI may be effected where the qualifying period for the benefit
corresponding to the reduced percentage exceeds five years of contribution or
employment but is less than 15 years of contribution or employment; a reduced
benefit shall be payable in conformity with paragraph 2 of this Article.
5. In order that a childless widow presumed to be incapable of self-support may
be entitled to a survivor’s benefit, a minimum duration of the marriage may be
required.
Article 64
The benefit specified in Articles 62 and 63 shall be granted throughout the
contingency.
PART XI. STANDARDS TO BE COMPLIED WITH BY
PERIODICAL PAYMENTS
Article 65
1. In the case of a periodical payment to which this Article applies, the rate of the
benefit, increased by the amount of any family allowances payable during the
contingency, shall be such as to attain, in respect of the contingency in question,
for the standard beneficiary indicated in the Schedule appended to this Part, at
least the percentage indicated therein of the total of the previous earnings of
the beneficiary or his breadwinner and of the amount of any family allowances
payable to a person protected with the same family responsibilities as the standard
beneficiary.
2. The previous earnings of the beneficiary or his breadwinner shall be calculated
according to prescribed rules, and, where the persons protected or their
28

--- Page 29 ---
breadwinners are arranged in classes according to their earnings, their previous
earnings may be calculated from the basic earnings of the classes to which they
belonged.
3. A maximum limit may be prescribed for the rate of the benefit or for the earnings
taken into account for the calculation of the benefit, provided that the maximum
limit is fixed in such a way that the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article are
complied with where the previous earnings of the beneficiary or his breadwinner
are equal to or lower than the wage of a skilled manual male employee.
4. The previous earnings of the beneficiary or his breadwinner, the wage of the
skilled manual male employee, the benefit and any family allowances shall be
calculated on the same time basis.
5. For the other beneficiaries, the benefit shall bear a reasonable relation to the
benefit for the standard beneficiary.
6. For the purpose of this Article, a skilled manual male employee shall be—
(a) a fitter or turner in the manufacture of machinery other than electrical
machinery; or
(b) a person deemed typical of skilled labour selected in accordance with
the provisions of the following paragraph; or
(c) a person whose earnings are such as to be equal to or greater than the
earnings of 75 per cent. of all the persons protected, such earnings to be
determined on the basis of annual or shorter periods as may be prescribed;
or
(d) a person whose earnings are equal to 125 per cent. of the average earnings
of all the persons protected.
7. The person deemed typical of skilled labour for the purposes of subparagraph
(b) of the preceding paragraph shall be a person employed in the major group
of economic activities with the largest number of economically active male
persons protected in the contingency in question, or of the breadwinners of the
persons protected, as the case may be, in the division comprising the largest
number of such persons or breadwinners; for this purpose, the international
standard industrial classification of all economic activities, adopted by the
Economic and Social Council of the United Nations at its Seventh Session on 27
August 1948, and reproduced in the Annex to this Convention, or such
classification as at any time amended, shall be used.
29

--- Page 30 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
8. Where the rate of benefit varies by region, the skilled manual male employee
may be determined for each region in accordance with paragraphs 6 and 7 of
this Article.
9. The wage of the skilled manual male employee shall be determined on the
basis of the rates of wages for normal hours of work fixed by collective
agreements, by or in pursuance of national laws or regulations, where applicable,
or by custom, including cost-of-living allowances if any; where such rates differ
by region but paragraph 8 of this Article is not applied, the median rate shall be
taken.
10. The rates of current periodical payments in respect of old age, employment
injury (except in case of incapacity for work), invalidity and death of breadwinner,
shall be reviewed following substantial changes in the general level of earnings
where these result from substantial changes in the cost of living.
Article 66
1. In the case of a periodical payment to which this Article applies, the rate of the
benefit, increased by the amount of any family allowances payable during the
contingency, shall be such as to attain, in respect of the contingency in question,
for the standard beneficiary indicated in the Schedule appended to this Part, at
least the percentage indicated therein of the total of the wage of an ordinary
adult male labourer and of the amount of any family allowances payable to a
person protected with the same family responsibilities as the standard beneficiary.
2. The wage of the ordinary adult male labourer, the benefit and any family
allowances shall be calculated on the same time basis.
3. For the other beneficiaries, the benefit shall bear a reasonable relation to the
benefit for the standard beneficiary.
4. For the purpose of this Article, the ordinary adult male labourer shall be—
(a) a person deemed typical of unskilled labour in the manufacture of
machinery other than electrical machinery; or
(b) a person deemed typical of unskilled labour selected in accordance with
the provisions of the following paragraph.
5. The person deemed typical of unskilled labour for the purpose of subparagraph
(b) of the preceding paragraph shall be a person employed in the major group
of economic activities with the largest number of economically active male
30

--- Page 31 ---
persons protected in the contingency in question, or of the breadwinners of the
persons protected, as the case may be, in the division comprising the largest
number of such persons or breadwinners; for this purpose, the international
standard industrial classification of all economic activities, adopted by the
Economic and Social Council of the United Nations at its Seventh Session on 27
August 1948, and reproduced in the Annex to this Convention, or such
classification as at any time amended, shall be used.
6. Where the rate of benefit varies by region, the ordinary adult male labourer
may be determined for each region in accordance with paragraphs 4 and 5 of
this Article.
7. The wage of the ordinary adult male labourer shall be determined on the basis
of the rates of wages for normal hours of work fixed by collective agreements,
by or in pursuance of national laws or regulations, where applicable, or by
custom, including cost-of-living allowances if any; where such rates differ by
region but paragraph 6 of this Article is not applied, the median rate shall be
taken.
8. The rates of current periodical payments in respect of old age, employment
injury (except in case of incapacity for work), invalidity and death of breadwinner,
shall be reviewed following substantial changes in the general level of earnings
where these result from substantial changes in the cost of living.
Article 67
In the case of a periodical payment to which this Article applies—
(a) the rate of the benefit shall be determined according to a prescribed scale or a
scale fixed by the competent public authority in conformity with prescribed
rules;
(b) such rate may be reduced only to the extent by which the other means of the
family of the beneficiary exceed prescribed substantial amounts or substantial
amounts fixed by the competent public authority in conformity with prescribed
rules;
(c) the total of the benefit and any other means, after deduction of the substantial
amounts referred to in subparagraph (b), shall be sufficient to maintain the family
of the beneficiary in health and decency, and shall be not less than the corresponding
benefit calculated in accordance with the requirements of Article 66;
31

--- Page 32 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
(d) the provisions of subparagraph (c) shall be deemed to be satisfied if the total
amount of benefits paid under the Part concerned exceeds by at least 30 per
cent. the total amount of benefits which would be obtained by applying the
provisions of Article 66 and the provisions of:
(i) Article 15 (b) for Part III;
(ii) Article 27 (b) for Part V;
(iii) Article 55 (b) for Part IX;
(iv) Article 61 (b) for Part X.
SCHEDULE TO PART XI. PERIODICAL PAYMENTS TO STANDARD
BENEFICIARIES
Part Contingency Standard Beneficiary Percentage
III Sickness Man with wife and two children 45
IV Unemployment Man with wife and two children 45
V Old age Man with wife of pensionable age 40
VI Employment
injury:
Incapacity of Man with wife and two children 50
work
Invalidity Man with wife and two children 50
Survivors Widow with two children 40
VIII Maternity Woman 45
IX Invalidity Man with wife and two children 40
X Survivors Widow with two children 40
32

--- Page 33 ---
PART XII. EQUALITY OF TREATMENT OF NON-
NATIONAL RESIDENTS
Article 68
1. Non-national residents shall have the same rights as national residents: Provided
that special rules concerning non-nationals and nationals born outside the
territory of the Member may be prescribed in respect of benefits or portions of
benefits which are payable wholly or mainly out of public funds and in respect
of transitional schemes.
2. Under contributory social security schemes which protect employees, the persons
protected who are nationals of another Member which has accepted the
obligations of the relevant Part of the Convention shall have, under that Part,
the same rights as nationals of the Member concerned: Provided that the
application of this paragraph may be made subject to the existence of a bilateral
or multilateral agreement providing for reciprocity.
PART XIII. COMMON PROVISIONS
Article 69
A benefit to which a person protected would otherwise be entitled in compliance
with any of Parts II to X of this Convention may be suspended to such extent as may
be prescribed—
(a) as long as the person concerned is absent from the territory of the Member;
(b) as long as the person concerned is maintained at public expense, or at the
expense of a social security institution or service, subject to any portion of the
benefit in excess of the value of such maintenance being granted to the
dependants of the beneficiary;
(c) as long as the person concerned is in receipt of another social security cash
benefit, other than a family benefit, and during any period in respect of which
he is indemnified for the contingency by a third party, subject to the part of the
benefit which is suspended not exceeding the other benefit or the indemnity by
a third party;
33

--- Page 34 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
(d) where the person concerned has made a fraudulent claim;
(e) where the contingency has been caused by a criminal offence committed by the
person concerned;
(f) where the contingency has been caused by the wilful misconduct of the person
concerned;
(g) in appropriate cases, where the person concerned neglects to make use of the
medical or rehabilitation services placed at his disposal or fails to comply with
rules prescribed for verifying the occurrence or continuance of the contingency
or for the conduct of beneficiaries;
(h) in the case of unemployment benefit, where the person concerned has failed to
make use of the employment services placed at his disposal;
(i) in the case of unemployment benefit, where the person concerned has lost his
employment as a direct result of a stoppage of work due to a trade dispute, or
has left it voluntarily without just cause; and
(j) in the case of survivors’ benefit, as long as the widow is living with a man as his
wife.
Article 70
1. Every claimant shall have a right of appeal in case of refusal of the benefit or
complaint as to its quality or quantity.
2. Where in the application of this Convention a Government department
responsible to a legislature is entrusted with the administration of medical care,
the right of appeal provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article may be replaced
by a right to have a complaint concerning the refusal of medical care or the
quality of the care received investigated by the appropriate authority.
3. Where a claim is settled by a special tribunal established to deal with social
security questions and on which the persons protected are represented, no
right of appeal shall be required.
Article 71
1. The cost of the benefits provided in compliance with this Convention and the
cost of the administration of such benefits shall be borne collectively by way of
insurance contributions or taxation or both in a manner which avoids hardship
to persons of small means and takes into account the economic situation of the
34

--- Page 35 ---
Member and of the classes of persons protected.
2. The total of the insurance contributions borne by the employees protected shall
not exceed 50 per cent. of the total of the financial resources allocated to the
protection of employees and their wives and children. For the purpose of
ascertaining whether this condition is fulfilled, all the benefits provided by the
Member in compliance with this Convention, except family benefit and, if
provided by a special branch, employment injury benefit, may be taken together.
3. The Member shall accept general responsibility for the due provision of the
benefits provided in compliance with this Convention, and shall take all measures
required for this purpose; it shall ensure, where appropriate, that the necessary
actuarial studies and calculations concerning financial equilibrium are made
periodically and, in any event, prior to any change in benefits, the rate of
insurance contributions, or the taxes allocated to covering the contingencies in
question.
Article 72
1. Where the administration is not entrusted to an institution regulated by the
public authorities or to a Government department responsible to a legislature,
representatives of the persons protected shall participate in the management,
or be associated therewith in a consultative capacity, under prescribed conditions;
national laws or regulations may likewise decide as to the participation of
representatives of employers and of the public authorities.
2. The Member shall accept general responsibility for the proper administration
of the institutions and services concerned in the application of the Convention.
35

--- Page 36 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
PART XIV. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Article 73
This Convention shall not apply to—
(a) contingencies which occurred before the coming into force of the relevant Part
of the Convention for the Member concerned;
(b) benefits in contingencies occurring after the coming into force of the relevant
Part of the Convention for the Member concerned in so far as the rights to such
benefits are derived from periods preceding that date.
Article 74
This Convention shall not be regarded as revising any existing Convention.
Article 75
If any Convention which may be adopted subsequently by the Conference concerning
any subject or subjects dealt with in this Convention so provides, such provisions of
this Convention as may be specified in the said Convention shall cease to apply to
any Member having ratified the said Convention as from the date at which the said
Convention comes into force for that Member.
(Editors’ Note: Provisions pursuant to Article 75 are contained in Conventions Nos. 121
(Article 29), 128 (Article 45) and 130 (Article 36).)
Article 76
1. Each Member which ratifies this Convention shall include in the annual report
upon the application of this Convention submitted under Article 22 of the
Constitution of the International Labour Organisation—
(a) full information concerning the laws and regulations by which effect is
given to the provisions of the Convention; and
(b) evidence, conforming in its presentation as closely as is practicable with
any suggestions for greater uniformity of presentation made by the
Governing Body of the International Labour Office, of compliance with
the statistical conditions specified in—
36

--- Page 37 ---
(i) Articles 9 (a), (b), (c) or (d); 15 (a), (b) or (d); 21 (a) or (c); 27 (a), (b) or
(d); 33 (a) or (b); 41 (a), (b) or (d); 48 (a), (b) or (c); 55 (a (a), (b) or (d);
61 (a), (b) or (d) , as regards the number of persons protected;
(ii) Articles 44, 65, 66 or 67, as regards the rates of benefit;
(iii) subparagraph (a) of paragraph 2 of Article 18, as regards duration of
sickness benefit;
(iv) paragraph 2 of Article 24, as regards duration of unemployment benefit;
and
(v) paragraph 2 of Article 71, as regards the proportion of the financial
resources constituted by the insurance contributions of employees
protected.
2. Each Member which ratifies this Convention shall report to the Director-General
of the International Labour Office at appropriate intervals, as requested by the
Governing Body, on the position of its law and practice in regard to any of Parts
II to X of the Convention not specified in its ratification or in a notification made
subsequently in virtue of Article 4.
Article 77
1. This Convention does not apply to seamen or seafishermen; provision for the
protection of seamen and seafishermen has been made by the International
Labour Conference in the Social Security (Seafarers) Convention, 1946, and the
Seafarers’ Pensions Convention, 1946.
2. A Member may exclude seamen and seafishermen from the number of
employees, of the economically active population or of residents, when calculating
the percentage of employees or residents protected in compliance with any of
Parts II to X covered by its ratification.
37

--- Page 38 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
PART XV. FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 78
The formal ratifications of this Convention shall be communicated to the Director-
General of the International Labour Office for registration.
Article 79
1. This Convention shall be binding only upon those Members of the International
Labour Organisation whose ratifications have been registered with the Director-
General.
2. It shall come into force twelve months after the date on which the ratifications
of two Members have been registered with the Director-General.
3. Thereafter, this Convention shall come into force for any Member twelve months
after the date on which its ratifications has been registered.
Article 80
1. Declarations communicated to the Director-General of the International Labour
Office in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 35 of the Constitution of the
International Labour Organisation shall indicate —
a) the territories in respect of which the Member concerned undertakes
that the provisions of the Convention shall be applied without
modification;
b) the territories in respect of which it undertakes that the provisions of the
Convention or of any Parts thereof shall be applied subject to modifications,
together with details of the said modifications;
c) the territories in respect of which the Convention is inapplicable and in
such cases the grounds on which it is inapplicable;
d) the territories in respect of which it reserves its decision pending further
consideration of the position.
2. The undertakings referred to in subparagraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph 1 of this
Article shall be deemed to be an integral part of the ratification and shall have
the force of ratification.
3. Any Member may at any time by a subsequent declaration cancel in whole or in
38

--- Page 39 ---
part any reservation made in its original declaration in virtue of subparagraph
(b), (c) or (d) of paragraph 1 of this Article.
4. Any Member may, at any time at which the Convention is subject to denunciation
in accordance with the provisions of Article 82, communicate to the Director-
General a declaration modifying in any other respect the terms of any former
declaration and stating the present position in respect of such territories as it
may specify.
Article 81
1. Declarations communicated to the Director-General of the International Labour
Office in accordance with paragraph 4 or 5 of Article 35 of the Constitution of
the International Labour Organisation shall indicate whether the provisions of
the Convention or of the Parts thereof accepted by the Declaration will be applied
in the territory concerned without modification or subject to modifications;
when the Declaration indicates that the provisions of the Convention or of certain
Parts thereof will be applied subject to modifications, it shall give details of the
said modifications.
2. The Member, Members or international authority concerned may at any time
by a subsequent declaration renounce in whole or in part the right to have
recourse to any modification indicated in any former declaration.
3. The Member, Members or international authority concerned may, at any time
at which this Convention is subject to denunciation in accordance with the
provisions of Article 82, communicate to the Director-General a declaration
modifying in any other respect the terms of any former declaration and stating
the present position in respect of the application of the Convention.
Article 82
1. A Member which has ratified this Convention may, after the expiration of the
ten years from the date on which the Convention first comes into force, denounce
the Convention or any one or more of Parts II to X thereof by an act communicated
to the Director-General of the International Labour Office for registration. Such
denunciation shall not take effect until one year after the date on which it is
registered.
39

--- Page 40 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
2. Each Member which has ratified this Convention and which does not, within
the year following the expiration of the period of ten years mentioned in the
preceding paragraph, exercise the right of denunciation provided for in this
Article, will be bound for another period of ten years and, thereafter, may
denounce the Convention or any one of Parts II to X thereof at the expiration of
each period of ten years under the terms provided for in this Article.
Article 83
1. The Director-General of the International Labour Office shall notify all Members
of the International Labour Organisation of the registration of all ratifications,
declarations and denunciations communicated to him by the Members of the
Organisation.
2. When notifying the Members of the Organisation of the registration of the
second ratification communicated to him, the Director-General shall draw the
attention of the Members of the Organisation to the date upon which the
Convention will come into force.
Article 84
The Director-General of the International Labour Office shall communicate to the
Secretary-General of the United Nations for registration in accordance with Article
102 of the Charter of the United Nations full particulars of all ratifications, declarations
and acts of denunciation registered by him in accordance with the provisions of the
preceding Articles.
Article 85
At such times as it may consider necessary the Governing Body of the International
Labour Office shall present to the General Conference a report on the working of this
Convention and shall examine the desirability of placing on the agenda of the
Conference the question of its revision in whole or in part.
Article 86
1. Should the Conference adopt a new Convention revising this Convention in
whole or in part, then, unless the new Convention otherwise provides:
40

--- Page 41 ---
a) the ratification by a Member of the new revising Convention shall ipso
jure involve the immediate denunciation of this Convention,
notwithstanding the provisions of Article 82 above, if and when the new
revising Convention shall have come into force;
b) as from the date when the new revising Convention comes into force, this
Convention shall cease to be open to ratification by the Members.
2. This Convention shall in any case remain in force in its actual form and content for
those Members which have ratified it but have not ratified the revising
Convention.
Article 87
The English and French versions of the text of this Convention are equally authoritative.
41

--- Page 42 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
42

--- Page 43 ---
ANNEX
INTERNATIONAL STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION OF
ALL ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES (REVISED UP TO 1969)
LIST OF MAJOR DIVISIONS, DIVISIONS AND MAJOR GROUPS
Major Divisions 1. Agriculture, Hunting, Forestry and Fishing
Division Major group
11 Agriculture and Hunting
111 Agricultural and livestock production
112 Agricultural services
113 Hunting, trapping and game propagation
12 Forestry and Logging
121 Forestry
122 Logging
13 130 Fishing
Major Division 2. Mining and Quarrying
Division Major group
21 210 Coal Mining
22 220 Crude Petroleum and Natural Gas Production
23 230 Metal Ore Mining
29 290 Other Mining
43

--- Page 44 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
Major Division 3. Manufacturing
Division Major group
31 Manufacture of Food, Beverages and Tobacco
311-312 Food manufacturing
313 Beverage industries
314 Tobacco manufactures
32 Textile, Wearing Apparel and Leather Industries
321 Manufacture of textiles
322 Manufacture of wearing apparel, except footwear
323 Manufacture of leather and products of leather,
leather substitutes and fur, except footwear and
wearing apparel
324 Manufacture of footwear, except vulcanised or
moulded rubber or plastic footwear.
33 Manufacture of Wood and Wood Products,
Including Furniture
331 Manufacture of wood and wood and cork
products, except furniture
332 Manufacture of furniture and fixtures, except
primarily of metal
34 Manufacture of Paper and Paper Products, Printing
and Publishing
341 Manufacture of paper and paper products
342 Printing, publishing and allied industries
35 Manufacture of Chemicals and Chemical,
Petroleum, Coal, Rubber and Plastic Products
351 Manufacture of industrial chemicals
352 Manufacture of other chemical products
353 Petroleum refineries
354 Manufacture of miscellaneous products of
petroleum and coal
355 Manufacture of rubber products
356 Manufacture of plastic products not elsewhere
classified
36 Manufacture of Non-Metallic Mineral Products,
except Products of Petroleum and Coal
361 Manufacture of pottery, china and earthenware
362 Manufacture of glass and glass products
44

--- Page 45 ---
369 Manufacture of other non-metallic mineral
products
37 Basic Metal Industries
371 Iron and steel basic industries
372 Non-ferrous metal basic industries
38 Manufacture of Fabricated Metal Products,
Machinery and Equipment
381 Manufacture of fabricated metal products, except
machinery and equipment
382 Manufacture of machinery except electrical
383 Manufacture of electrical machinery apparatus,
appliances and supplies
384 Manufacture of transport equipment
385 Manufacture of professional and scientific and
measuring and controlling equipment not
elsewhere classified, and of photographic and
optical goods
39 390 Other Manufacturing Industries
Major Division 4. Electricity, Gas and Water
Division Major group
41 410 Electricity, Gas and Steam
42 420 Water Works and Supply
Major Division 5. Construction
Division Major group
50 500 Construction
45

--- Page 46 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
Major Division 6. Wholesale and Retail Trade and Restaurants and
Hotels
Division Major group
61 610 Wholesale Trade
62 620 Retail Trade
63 Restaurants and Hotels
631 Restaurants, cafés, and other eating and drinking
places
632 Hotels, rooming houses, camps and other lodging
places
Major Division 7. Transport, Storage and Communication
Division Major group
71 Transport and Storage
711 Land transport
712 Water transport
713 Air transport
719 Services allied to transport
72 720 Communication
Major Division 8. Financing, Insurance, Real Estate and Business
Services
Division Major group
81 810 Financial Institutions
82 820 Insurance
83 Real Estate and Business Services
831 Real estate
832 Business services except machinery and equipment
rental and leasing
833 Machinery and equipment rental and leasing
46

--- Page 47 ---
Major Division 9. Community, Social and Personal Services
Division Major group
91 910 Public Administration and Defence
92 920 Sanitary and Similar Services
93 Social and Related Community Services
931 Education services
932 Research and scientific institutes
933 Medical, dental, other health and veterinary
services
934 Welfare institutions
935 Business, professional and labour associations
939 Other social and related community services
94 Recreational and Cultural Services
941 Motion picture and other entertainment services
942 Libraries, museums, botanical and zoological
gardens, and other cultural services not elsewhere
classified
949 Amusement and recreational services not
elsewhere classified
95 Personal and Household Services
951 Repair services not elsewhere classified
952 Laundries, laundry services, and cleaning and
dyeing plants
953 Domestic services
959 Miscellaneous personal services
96 960 International and Other Extra-Territorial Bodies
Major Division 0. Activities Not Adequately Defined
Division Major group
0 000 Activities not adequately defined
47

--- Page 48 ---
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
Cross references
Constitution: 22:article 22 of the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation
Conventions: C121 Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964
Conventions: C128 Invalidity, Old-Age and Survivors’ Benefits Convention, 1967
Conventions: C130 Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, 1969
Conventions: C070 Social Security (Seafarers) Convention, 1946
Conventions: C071 Seafarers’ Pensions Convention, 1946
Constitution: 35:article 35 of the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation
48