--- Page 1 ---
Convention C121 - Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 [S... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
NORMLEX
Information System on International Labour Standards Search User guide Glossary
C121 - Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 [Schedule I
amended in 1980] (No. 121)
Display in: French - Spanish - Arabic - German - Russian - Chinese
Go to article : 123456789101112131415161718192021222324252627282930313233343536373839
Preamble
The General Conference of the International Labour Organisation,
Having been convened at Geneva by the Governing Body of the International Labour Office, and having met in its Forty-
eighth Session on 17 June 1964, and
Having decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to benefits in the case of industrial accidents and
occupational diseases, which is the fifth item on the agenda of the session, and
Having determined that these proposals shall take the form of an international Convention,
adopts this eighth day of July of the year one thousand nine hundred and sixty-four the following Convention, which may be
cited as the Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964:
Article 1
In this Convention--
(a) the term legislation includes any social security rules as well as laws and regulations;
(b) the term prescribed means determined by or in virtue of national legislation;
(c) the term industrial undertaking includes all undertakings in the following branches of economic activity: mining
and quarrying; manufacturing; construction; electricity, gas, water and sanitary services; and transport, storage and
communication;
(d) the term dependent refers to a state of dependency which is presumed to exist in prescribed cases;
(e) the term dependent child covers--
(i) a child under school-leaving age or under 15 years of age, whichever is the higher, and
(ii) a child under a prescribed age higher than that specified in subclause (i) and who is an apprentice or student or has
a chronic illness or infirmity disabling him for any gainful activity, on conditions laid down by national legislation:
Provided that this requirement shall be deemed to be met where national legislation defines the term so as to cover any
child under an age appreciably higher than that specified in subclause (i).
Article 2
1. A Member whose economic and medical facilities are insufficiently developed may avail itself by a declaration accompanying
its ratification of the temporary exceptions provided for in the following Articles: Article 5, Article 9, paragraph 3, clause (b),
Article 12, Article 15, paragraph 2, and Article 18, paragraph 3. Any such declaration shall state the reason for such exceptions.
1 of 16 02/06/2026, 00:18

--- Page 2 ---
Convention C121 - Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 [S... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
2. Each Member which has made a declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article shall include in its report upon the application
of this Convention submitted under Article 22 of the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation a statement in
respect of each exception of which it avails itself--
(a) that its reason for doing so subsists; or
(b) that it renounces its right to avail itself of the exception in question as from a stated date.
Article 3
1. Any Member which ratifies this Convention may, by a declaration accompanying its ratification, exclude from the application
of the Convention--
(a) seafarers, including seafishermen,
(b) public servants,
where these categories are protected by special schemes which provide in the aggregate benefits at least equivalent to those
required by this Convention.
2. Where a declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article is in force, the Member may exclude the persons belonging to the
category or categories excluded from the application of the Convention from the number of employees when calculating the
percentage of employees in compliance with paragraph 2, clause (d), of Article 4, and with Article 5.
3. Any Member which has made a declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article may subsequently notify the Director-General of
the International Labour Office that it accepts the obligations of this Convention in respect of a category or categories excluded
at the time of its ratification.
Article 4
1. National legislation concerning employment injury benefits shall protect all employees, including apprentices, in the public
and private sectors, including co-operatives, and, in respect of the death of the breadwinner, prescribed categories of
beneficiaries.
2. Any Member may make such exceptions as it deems necessary in respect of--
(a) persons whose employment is of a casual nature and who are employed otherwise than for the purpose of the employer's
trade or business;
(b) out-workers;
(c) members of the employer's family living in his house, in respect of their work for him;
(d) other categories of employees, which shall not exceed in number 10 per cent. of all employees other than those excluded
under clauses (a) to (c).
Article 5
Where a declaration provided for in Article 2 is in force, the application of national legislation concerning employment injury
benefits may be limited to prescribed categories of employees, which shall total in number not less than 75 per cent. of all
employees in industrial undertakings, and, in respect of the death of the breadwinner, prescribed categories of beneficiaries.
Article 6
The contingencies covered shall include the following where due to an employment injury:
(a) a morbid condition;
(b) incapacity for work resulting from such a condition and involving suspension of earnings, as defined by national
legislation;
(c) total loss of earning capacity or partial loss thereof in excess of a prescribed degree, likely to be permanent, or
corresponding loss of faculty; and
2 of 16 02/06/2026, 00:18

--- Page 3 ---
Convention C121 - Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 [S... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
(d) the loss of support suffered as the result of the death of the breadwinner by prescribed categories of beneficiaries.
Article 7
1. Each Member shall prescribe a definition of "industrial accident", including the conditions under which a commuting accident
is considered to be an industrial accident, and shall specify the terms of such definition in its reports upon the application of this
Convention submitted under Article 22 of the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation.
2. Where commuting accidents are covered by social security schemes other than employment injury schemes, and these
schemes provide in respect of commuting accidents benefits which, when taken together, are at least equivalent to those
required under this Convention, it shall not be necessary to make provision for commuting accidents in the definition of
"industrial accident".
Article 8
Each Member shall--
(a) prescribe a list of diseases, comprising at least the diseases enumerated in Schedule I to this Convention, which shall be
regarded as occupational diseases under prescribed conditions; or
(b) include in its legislation a general definition of occupational diseases broad enough to cover at least the diseases
enumerated in Schedule I to this Convention; or
(c) prescribe a list of diseases in conformity with clause (a), complemented by a general definition of occupational diseases
or by other provisions for establishing the occupational origin of diseases not so listed or manifesting themselves under
conditions different from those prescribed.
Article 9
1. Each Member shall secure to the persons protected, subject to prescribed conditions, the provision of the following benefits:
(a) medical care and allied benefits in respect of a morbid condition;
(b) cash benefits in respect of the contingencies specified in Article 6, clauses (b), (c) and (d).
2. Eligibility for benefits may not be made subject to the length of employment, to the duration of insurance or to the payment of
contributions: Provided that a period of exposure may be prescribed for occupational diseases.
3. The benefits shall be granted throughout the contingency: Provided that in respect of incapacity for work the cash benefit
need not be paid for the first three days--
(a) where the legislation of a Member provides for a waiting period at the date on which this Convention comes into force,
on condition that the Member includes in its reports upon the application of this Convention submitted under Article 22 of
the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation a statement that its reason for availing itself of this provision
subsists; or
(b) where a declaration provided for in Article 2 is in force.
Article 10
1. Medical care and allied benefits in respect of a morbid condition shall comprise--
(a) general practitioner and specialist in-patient and out-patient care, including domiciliary visiting;
(b) dental care;
(c) nursing care at home or in hospital or other medical institutions;
(d) maintenance in hospitals, convalescent homes, sanatoria or other medical institutions;
(e) dental, pharmaceutical and other medical or surgical supplies, including prosthetic appliances kept in repair and
renewed as necessary, and eyeglasses;
(f) the care furnished by members of such other professions as may at any time be legally recognised as allied to the medical
profession, under the supervision of a medical or dental practitioner; and
3 of 16 02/06/2026, 00:18

--- Page 4 ---
Convention C121 - Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 [S... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
(g) the following treatment at the place of work, wherever possible:
(i) emergency treatment of persons sustaining a serious accident;
(ii) follow-up treatment of those whose injury is slight and does not entail discontinuance of work.
2. The benefits provided in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article shall be afforded, using all suitable means, with a view to
maintaining, restoring or, where this is not possible, improving the health of the injured person and his ability to work and to
attend to his personal needs.
Article 11
1. Any Member which provides medical care and allied benefits by means of a general health scheme or a medical care scheme
for employed persons may specify in its legislation that such care shall be made available to persons who have sustained
employment injuries on the same terms as to other persons entitled thereto, on condition that the rules on the subject are so
designed as to avoid hardship.
2. Any Member which provides medical care and allied benefits by reimbursing expenses may in its legislation make special
rules in respect of cases in which the extent, duration or cost of such care exceed reasonable limits, on condition that the rules
on the subject are not inconsistent with the purpose stated in paragraph 2 of Article 10 and are so designed as to avoid hardship.
Article 12
Where a declaration provided for in Article 2 is in force, medical care and allied benefits shall include at least--
(a) general practitioner care, including domiciliary visiting;
(b) specialist care at hospitals for in-patients and out-patients, and such specialist care as may be available outside
hospitals;
(c) the essential pharmaceutical supplies on prescription by a medical or other qualified practitioner;
(d) hospitalisation, where necessary; and
(e) wherever possible, emergency treatment at the place of work of persons sustaining an industrial accident.
Article 13
The cash benefit in respect of temporary or initial incapacity for work shall be a periodical payment calculated in such a manner
as to comply either with the requirements of Article 19 or with the requirements of Article 20.
Article 14
1. Cash benefits in respect of loss of earning capacity likely to be permanent or corresponding loss of faculty shall be payable in
all cases in which such loss, in excess of a prescribed degree, remains at the expiration of the period during which benefits are
payable in accordance with Article 13.
2. In case of total loss of earning capacity likely to be permanent or corresponding loss of faculty, the benefit shall be a periodical
payment calculated in such a manner as to comply either with the requirements of Article 19 or with the requirements of Article
20.
3. In case of substantial partial loss of earning capacity likely to be permanent which is in excess of a prescribed degree, or
corresponding loss of faculty, the benefit shall be a periodical payment representing a suitable proportion of that provided for in
paragraph 2 of this Article.
4. In case of partial loss of earning capacity likely to be permanent which is not substantial but which is in excess of the
prescribed degree referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, or corresponding loss of faculty, the cash benefit may take the form
of a lump-sum payment.
5. The degrees of loss of earning capacity or corresponding loss of faculty referred to in paragraphs 1 and 3 of this Article shall be
prescribed in such manner as to avoid hardship.
Article 15
4 of 16 02/06/2026, 00:18

--- Page 5 ---
Convention C121 - Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 [S... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
1. In exceptional circumstances, and with the agreement of the injured person, all or part of the periodical payment provided for
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 14 may be converted into a lump sum corresponding to the actuarial equivalent thereof when
the competent authority has reason to believe that such lump sum will be utilised in a manner which is particularly
advantageous for the injured person.
2. Where a declaration provided for in Article 2 is in force and the Member concerned considers that it lacks the necessary
administrative facilities for periodical payments, the periodical payment provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 14 may be
converted into a lump sum corresponding to the actuarial equivalent thereof, as computed on the basis of available data.
Article 16
Increments in periodical payments or other supplementary or special benefits, as prescribed, shall be provided for disabled
persons requiring the constant help or attendance of another person.
Article 17
The conditions in which periodical payments due in respect of loss of earning capacity or corresponding loss of faculty shall be
reassessed, suspended or cancelled by reference to a change in the degree of loss shall be prescribed.
Article 18
1. The cash benefit in respect of death of the breadwinner shall be a periodical payment to a widow as prescribed, a disabled and
dependent widower, dependent children of the deceased and other persons as may be prescribed; this payment shall be
calculated in such a manner as to comply either with the requirements of Article 19 or with the requirement of Article 20:
Provided that it shall not be necessary to make provision for a benefit to a disabled and dependent widower where the cash
benefits to other survivors are appreciably in excess of those required by this Convention and where social security schemes
other than employment injury schemes provide to such widower benefits which are appreciably in excess of those in respect of
invalidity required under the Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952.
2. In addition, a funeral benefit shall be provided at a prescribed rate which shall not be less than the normal cost of a funeral:
Provided that where cash benefits to survivors are appreciably in excess of those required by this Convention the right to funeral
benefit may be made subject to prescribed conditions.
3. Where a declaration provided for in Article 2 is in force and the Member concerned considers that it lacks the necessary
administrative facilities for periodical payments, the periodical payment provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article may be
converted into a lump sum corresponding to the actuarial equivalent thereof, as computed on the basis of available data.
Article 19
1. In the case of a periodical payment to which this Article applies, the rate of the benefit, increased by the amount of any family
allowances payable during the contingency, shall be such as to attain, in respect of the contingency in question, for the standard
beneficiary indicated in Schedule II to this Convention, at least the percentage indicated therein of the total of the previous
earnings of the beneficiary or his breadwinner and of the amount of any family allowances payable to a person protected with
the same family responsibilities as the standard beneficiary.
2. The previous earnings of the beneficiary or his breadwinner shall be calculated according to prescribed rules, and, where the
persons protected or their breadwinners are arranged in classes according to their earnings, their previous earnings may be
calculated from the basic earnings of the classes to which they belonged.
3. A maximum limit may be prescribed for the rate of the benefit or for the earnings taken into account for the calculation of the
benefit, provided that the maximum limit is fixed in such a way that the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article are complied
with where the previous earnings of the beneficiary or his breadwinner are equal to or lower than the wage of a skilled manual
male employee.
4. The previous earnings of the beneficiary or his breadwinner, the wage of the skilled manual male employee, the benefit and
any family allowances shall be calculated on the same time basis.
5. For the other beneficiaries the benefit shall bear a reasonable relation to the benefit for the standard beneficiary.
6. For the purpose of this Article, a skilled manual male employee shall be--
5 of 16 02/06/2026, 00:18

--- Page 6 ---
Convention C121 - Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 [S... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
(a) a fitter or turner in the manufacture of machinery other than electrical machinery; or
(b) a person deemed typical of skilled labour selected in accordance with the provisions of the following paragraph; or
(c) a person whose earnings are such as to be equal to or greater than the earnings of 75 per cent. of all the persons
protected, such earnings to be determined on the basis of annual or shorter periods as may be prescribed; or
(d) a person whose earnings are equal to 125 per cent. of the average earnings of all the persons protected.
7. The person deemed typical of skilled labour for the purpose of clause (b) of the preceding paragraph shall be a person
employed in the major group of economic activities with the largest number of economically active male persons protected in
the contingency in question, or of the breadwinners of the persons protected, as the case may be, in the division comprising the
largest number of such persons or breadwinners; for this purpose, the international standard industrial classification of all
economic activities, adopted by the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations at its Seventh Session on 27 August
1948, as amended and reproduced in the Annex to this Convention, or such classification as at any time further amended, shall
be used.
8. Where the rate of benefit varies by region, the skilled manual male employee may be determined for each region in
accordance with paragraphs 6 and 7 of this Article.
9. The wage of the skilled manual male employee shall be determined on the basis of the rates of wages for normal hours of work
fixed by collective agreements, by or in pursuance of national laws or regulations, where applicable, or by custom, including
cost-of-living allowances, if any; where such rates differ by region but paragraph 8 of this Article is not applied, the median rate
shall be taken.
10. No periodical payment shall be less than a prescribed minimum amount.
Article 20
1. In the case of a periodical payment to which this Article applies, the rate of the benefit, increased by the amount of any family
allowances payable during the contingency, shall be such as to attain, in respect of the contingency in question, for the standard
beneficiary indicated in Schedule II to this Convention, at least the percentage indicated therein of the total of the wage of an
ordinary adult male labourer and of the amount of any family allowances payable to a person protected with the same family
responsibilities as the standard beneficiary.
2. The wage of the ordinary adult male labourer, the benefit and any family allowances shall be calculated on the same time
basis.
3. For the other beneficiaries, the benefit shall bear a reasonable relation to the benefit for the standard beneficiary.
4. For the purpose of this Article, the ordinary adult male labourer shall be--
(a) a person deemed typical of unskilled labour in the manufacture of machinery other than electrical machinery; or
(b) a person deemed typical of unskilled labour selected in accordance with the provisions of the following paragraph.
5. The person deemed typical of unskilled labour for the purpose of clause (b) of the preceding paragraph shall be a person
employed in the major group of economic activities with the largest number of economically active male persons protected in
the contingency in question, or of the breadwinners of the persons protected, as the case may be, in the division comprising the
largest number of such persons or breadwinners; for this purpose the international standard industrial classification of all
economic activities, adopted by the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations at its Seventh Session on 27 August
1948, as amended and reproduced in the Annex to this Convention, or such classification as at any time further amended, shall
be used.
6. Where the rate of benefit varies by region, the ordinary adult male labourer may be determined for each region in accordance
with paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Article.
7. The wage of the ordinary adult male labourer shall be determined on the basis of the rates of wages for normal hours of work
fixed by collective agreements, by or in pursuance of national laws or regulations, where applicable, or by custom, including
cost-of-living allowances if any; where such rates differ by region but paragraph 6 of this Article is not applied, the median rate
shall be taken.
6 of 16 02/06/2026, 00:18

--- Page 7 ---
Convention C121 - Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 [S... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
8. No periodical payment shall be less than a prescribed minimum amount.
Article 21
1. The rates of cash benefits currently payable pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 14 and paragraph 1 of Article 18 shall be
reviewed following substantial changes in the general level of earnings where these result from substantial changes in the cost of
living.
2. Each Member shall include the findings of such reviews in its reports upon the application of this Convention submitted
under Article 22 of the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation, and shall specify any action taken.
Article 22
1. A benefit to which a person protected would otherwise be entitled in compliance with this Convention may be suspended to
such extent as may be prescribed--
(a) as long as the person concerned is absent from the territory of the Member;
(b) as long as the person concerned is maintained at public expense or at the expense of a social security institution or
service;
(c) where the person concerned has made a fraudulent claim;
(d) where the employment injury has been caused by a criminal offence committed by the person concerned;
(e) where the employment injury has been caused by voluntary intoxication or by the serious and wilful misconduct of the
person concerned;
(f) where the person concerned, without good cause, neglects to make use of the medical care and allied benefits or the
rehabilitation services placed at his disposal, or fails to comply with rules prescribed for verifying the occurrence or
continuance of the contingency or for the conduct of beneficiaries; and
(g) as long as the surviving spouse is living with another person as spouse.
2. In the cases and within the limits prescribed, part of the cash benefit otherwise due shall be paid to the dependants of the
person concerned.
Article 23
1. Every claimant shall have a right of appeal in the case of refusal of the benefit or complaint as to its quality or quantity.
2. Where in the application of this Convention a government department responsible to a legislature is entrusted with the
administration of medical care, the right of appeal provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article may be replaced by a right to have
a complaint concerning the refusal of medical care or the quality of the care received investigated by the appropriate authority.
3. Where a claim is settled by a special tribunal established to deal with employment injury benefit questions or with social
security questions in general and on which the persons protected are represented, no right of appeal shall be required.
Article 24
1. Where the administration is not entrusted to an institution regulated by the public authorities or to a government department
responsible to a legislature, representatives of the persons protected shall participate in the management, or be associated
therewith in a consultative capacity, under prescribed conditions; national legislation may likewise decide as to the participation
of representatives of employers and of the public authorities.
2. The Member shall accept general responsibility for the proper administration of the institutions or services concerned in the
application of this Convention.
Article 25
Each Member shall accept general responsibility for the due provision of the benefits provided in compliance with this
Convention and shall take all measures required for this purpose.
7 of 16 02/06/2026, 00:18

--- Page 8 ---
Convention C121 - Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 [S... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
Article 26
1. Each Member shall, under prescribed conditions--
(a) take measures to prevent industrial accidents and occupational diseases;
(b) provide rehabilitation services which are designed to prepare a disabled person wherever possible for the resumption of
his previous activity, or, if this is not possible, the most suitable alternative gainful activity, having regard to his aptitudes
and capacity; and
(c) take measures to further the placement of disabled persons in suitable employment.
2. Each Member shall as far as possible furnish in its reports upon the application of this Convention submitted under Article 22
of the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation information concerning the frequency and severity of industrial
accidents.
Article 27
Each Member shall within its territory assure to non-nationals equality of treatment with its own nationals as regards
employment injury benefits.
Article 28
1. This Convention revises the Workmen's Compensation (Agriculture) Convention, 1921, the Workmen's Compensation
(Accidents) Convention, 1925, the Workmen's Compensation (Occupational Diseases) Convention, 1925, and the Workmen's
Compensation (Occupational Diseases) Convention (Revised), 1934.
2. Ratification of this Convention by a Member which is a party to the Workmen's Compensation (Occupational Diseases)
Convention (Revised), 1934, shall, in accordance with Article 8 thereof, ipso jure involve the immediate denunciation of that
Convention, if and when this Convention shall have come into force, but the coming into force of this Convention shall not close
that Convention to further ratification.
Article 29
In conformity with Article 75 of the Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952, Part VI of that Convention and the
relevant provisions of other Parts thereof shall cease to apply to any Member having ratified this Convention as from the date at
which this Convention comes into force for that Member, but acceptance of the obligations of this Convention shall be deemed
to constitute acceptance of the obligations of Part VI of the Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952, and the
relevant provisions of other Parts thereof, for the purpose of Article 2 of the said Convention.
Article 30
If any Convention which may be adopted subsequently by the Conference concerning any subject or subjects dealt with in this
Convention so provides, such provisions of this Convention as may be specified in the said Convention shall cease to apply to
any Member having ratified the said Convention as from the date at which the said Convention comes into force for that
Member.
Article 31
1. The International Labour Conference may, at any session at which the matter is included in its agenda, adopt by a two-thirds
majority amendments to Schedule I to this Convention.
2. Such amendments shall take effect in respect of any Member already a party to the Convention when such Member notifies
the Director-General of the International Labour Office of its acceptance thereof.
3. Unless the Conference otherwise decides when adopting an amendment, an amendment shall be effective, by reason of its
adoption by the Conference, in respect of any Member subsequently ratifying the Convention.
Article 32
The formal ratifications of this Convention shall be communicated to the Director-General of the International Labour Office for
registration.
8 of 16 02/06/2026, 00:18

--- Page 9 ---
Convention C121 - Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 [S... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
Article 33
1. This Convention shall be binding only upon those Members of the International Labour Organisation whose ratifications have
been registered with the Director-General.
2. It shall come into force twelve months after the date on which the ratifications of two Members have been registered with the
Director-General.
3. Thereafter, this Convention shall come into force for any Member twelve months after the date on which its ratifications has
been registered.
Article 34
1. A Member which has ratified this Convention may denounce it after the expiration of ten years from the date on which the
Convention first comes into force, by an act communicated to the Director-General of the International Labour Office for
registration. Such denunciation shall not take effect until one year after the date on which it is registered.
2. Each Member which has ratified this Convention and which does not, within the year following the expiration of the period of
ten years mentioned in the preceding paragraph, exercise the right of denunciation provided for in this Article, will be bound for
another period of ten years and, thereafter, may denounce this Convention at the expiration of each period of ten years under
the terms provided for in this Article.
Article 35
1. The Director-General of the International Labour Office shall notify all Members of the International Labour Organisation of
the registration of all ratifications and denunciations communicated to him by the Members of the Organisation.
2. When notifying the Members of the Organisation of the registration of the second ratification communicated to him, the
Director-General shall draw the attention of the Members of the Organisation to the date upon which the Convention will come
into force.
Article 36
The Director-General of the International Labour Office shall communicate to the Secretary-General of the United Nations for
registration in accordance with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations full particulars of all ratifications and acts of
denunciation registered by him in accordance with the provisions of the preceding Articles.
Article 37
At such times as it may consider necessary the Governing Body of the International Labour Office shall present to the General
Conference a report on the working of this Convention and shall examine the desirability of placing on the agenda of the
Conference the question of its revision in whole or in part.
Article 38
1. Should the Conference adopt a new Convention revising this Convention in whole or in part, then, unless the new Convention
otherwise provides:
(a) the ratification by a Member of the new revising Convention shall ipso jure involve the immediate denunciation of this
Convention, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 34 above, if and when the new revising Convention shall have come
into force;
(b) as from the date when the new revising Convention comes into force this Convention shall cease to be open to
ratification by the Members.
2. This Convention shall in any case remain in force in its actual form and content for those Members which have ratified it but
have not ratified the revising Convention.
Article 39
The English and French versions of the text of this Convention are equally authoritative.
SCHEDULE I. LIST OF OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES (1)
9 of 16 02/06/2026, 00:18

--- Page 10 ---
Convention C121 - Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 [S... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
Occupational diseases Work involving exposure to risk *
1. Pneumoconioses caused by sclerogenic mineral dust (silicosis, All work involving exposure to the risk concerned.
anthraco-silicosis, asbestosis) and silico-tuberculosis, provided
that silicosis is an essential factor in causing the resultant
incapacity or death.
2. Bronchopulmonary diseases caused by hard-metal dust. "
3. Bronchopulmonary diseases caused by cotton dust "
(byssinosis), or flax, hemp or sisal dust.
4. Occupational asthma caused by sensitising agents or irritants "
both recognised in this regard and inherent in the work process.
5. Extrinsic allergic alveolitis and its sequelae caused by the "
inhalation of organic dusts, as prescribed by national legislation.
6. Diseases caused by beryllium or its toxic compounds. "
7. Diseases caused by cadmium or its toxic compounds. "
8. Diseases caused by phosphorus or its toxic compounds. "
9. Diseases caused by chromium or its toxic compounds. "
10. Diseases caused by manganese or its toxic compounds. "
11. Diseases caused by arsenic or its toxic compounds. "
12. Diseases caused by mercury or its toxic compounds. "
13. Diseases caused by lead or its toxic compounds. "
14. Diseases caused by fluorine or its toxic compounds. "
15. Diseases caused by carbon disulfide. "
16. Diseases caused by the toxic halogen derivatives of aliphatic "
or aromatic hydrocarbons.
17. Diseases caused by benzene or its toxic homologues. "
18. Diseases caused by toxic nitro- and amino-derivatives of "
benzene or its homologues.
19. Diseases caused by nitroglycerin or other nitric acid esters. "
20. Diseases caused by alcohols, glycols or ketones. "
21. Diseases caused by asphyxiants: carbon monoxide, hydrogen "
cyanide or its toxic derivatives, hydrogen sulfide.
22. Hearing impairment caused by noise. "
23. Diseases caused by vibration (disorders of muscles, tendons, "
bones, joints, peripheral blood vessels or peripheral nerves).
24. Diseases caused by work in compressed air. "
25. Diseases caused by ionising radiations. All work involving exposure to the action of ionising
radiations.
26. Skin diseases caused by physical, chemical or biological All work involving exposure to the risk concerned.
agents not included under other items.
27. Primary epitheliomatous cancer of the skin caused by tar, "
pitch, bitumen, mineral oil, anthracene, or the compounds,
products or residues of these substances.
28. Lung cancer or mesotheliomas caused by asbestos. "
10 of 16 02/06/2026, 00:18

--- Page 11 ---
Convention C121 - Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 [S... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
29. Infectious or parasitic diseases contracted in an occupation
(a) Health or laboratory work.
where there is a particular risk of contamination.
(b) Veterinary work.
(c) Work handling animals, animal carcasses, parts of
such carcasses, or merchandise which may have been
contaminated by animals, animal carcasses, or parts
of such carcasses.
(d) Other work carrying a particular risk of
contamination.
(1) The original Schedule I was amended in 1980 in accordance with Article 31 of the Convention.
* In the application of this Schedule the degree and type of exposure should be taken into account when appropriate.
SCHEDULE II. PERIODICAL PAYMENTS TO STANDARD BENEFICIARIES
Category Standard beneficiary Percentage
1. Temporary or initial incapacity for work Man with wife and two children 60
2. Total loss of earning capacity or corresponding loss of faculty Man with wife and two children 60
3. Death of breadwinner Widow with two children 50
ANNEX
INTERNATIONAL STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION OF ALL ECONOMIC
ACTIVITIES (Revision 4)*
Section A. Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing
Division Description
01 Crop and animal production, hunting and related service activities
02 Forestry and Logging
03 Fishing and aquaculture
Section B. Mining and Quarrying
Division Description
05 Mining of coal and lignite
06 Extraction of crude petroleum and natural gas
07 Mining of metal ores
08 Other mining and quarrying
09 Mining support service activities
Section C. Manufacturing
Division Description
11 of 16 02/06/2026, 00:18

--- Page 12 ---
Convention C121 - Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 [S... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
10 Manufacture of food products
11 Manufacture of beverages
12 Manufacture of tobacco products
13 Manufacture of textiles
14 Manufacture of wearing apparel
15 Manufacture of leather and related products
16 Manufacture of wood and of products of wood and cork, except furniture; manufacture of articles of straw
and plaiting materials
17 Manufacture of paper and paper products
18 Printing and reproduction of recorded media
19 Manufacture of coke and refined petroleum products
20 Manufacture of chemicals and chemical products
21 Manufacture of pharmaceuticals, medicinal chemical and botanical products
22 Manufacture of rubber and plastics products
23 Manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products
24 Manufacture of basic metals
25 Manufacture of fabricated metal products, except machinery and equipment
26 Manufacture of computer, electronic and optical products
27 Manufacture of electrical equipment
28 Manufacture of machinery and equipment n.e.c.
29 Manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers
30 Manufacture of other transport equipment
31 Manufacture of furniture
32 Other manufacturing
33 Repair and installation of machinery and equipment
Section D. Electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply
Division Description
35 Electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply
Section E. Water supply; sewerage, waste management and remediation activities
Division Description
36 Water collection, treatment and supply
37 Sewerage
38 Waste collection, treatment and disposal activities; materials recovery
39 Remediation activities and other waste management services
Section F. Construction
12 of 16 02/06/2026, 00:18

--- Page 13 ---
Convention C121 - Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 [S... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
Division Description
41 Construction of buildings
42 Civil engineering
43 Specialized construction activities
Section G. Wholesale and retail trade; repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles
Division Description
45 Wholesale and retail trade and repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles
46 Wholesale trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles
47 Retail trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles
Section H. Transportation and storage
Division Description
49 Land transport and transport via pipelines
50 Water transport
51 Air transport
52 Warehousing and support activities for transportation
53 Postal and courier activities
Section I. Accommodation and food service activities
Division Description
55 Accommodation
56 Food and beverage service activities
Section J. Information and communication
Division Description
58 Publishing activities
59 Motion picture, video and television programme production, sound recording and music publishing
activities
60 Programming and broadcasting activities
61 Telecommunications
62 Computer programming, consultancy and related activities
63 Information service activities
Section K. Financial and insurance activities
Division Description
64 Financial service activities, except insurance and pension funding
65 Insurance, reinsurance and pension funding, except compulsory social security
13 of 16 02/06/2026, 00:18

--- Page 14 ---
Convention C121 - Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 [S... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
66 Activities auxiliary to financial service and insurance activities
Section L. Real estate activities
Division Description
68 Real estate activities
Section M. Professional, scientific and technical activities
Division Description
69 Legal and accounting activities
70 Activities of head offices; management consultancy activities
71 Architectural and engineering activities; technical testing and analysis
72 Scientific research and development
73 Advertising and market research
74 Other professional, scientific and technical activities
75 Veterinary activities
Section N. Administrative and support service activities
Division Description
77 Rental and leasing activities
78 Employment activities
79 Travel agency, tour operator, reservation service and related activities
80 Security and investigation activities
81 Services to buildings and landscape activities
82 Office administrative, office support and other business support activities
Section O. Public administration and defence; compulsory social security
Division Description
84 Public administration and defence; compulsory social security
Section P. Education
Division Description
85 Education
Section Q. Human health and social work activities
Division Description
86 Human health activities
87 Residential care activities
14 of 16 02/06/2026, 00:18

--- Page 15 ---
Convention C121 - Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 [S... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
88 Social work activities without accommodation
Section R. Arts, entertainment and recreation
Division Description
90 Creative, arts and entertainment activities
91 Libraries, archives, museums and other cultural activities
92 Gambling and betting activities
93 Sports activities and amusement and recreation activities
Section S. Other service activities
Division Description
94 Activities of membership organizations
95 Repair of computers and personal and household goods
96 Other personal service activities
Section T. Activities of households as employers; undifferentiated goods- and services-
producing activities of households for own use
Division Description
97 Activities of households as employers of domestic personnel
98 Undifferentiated goods- and services-producing activities of private households for own use
Section U. Activities of extraterritorial organizations and bodies
Division Description
99 Activities of extraterritorial organizations and bodies
* Note: In accordance with articles 19(7) and 20(5) of the Convention, its original Annex has been updated with the
amended version of the International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities (ISIC) Rev. 4, as
approved by the Statistical Commission of the UN Economic and Social Council in March 2006 (Statistical Papers,
Series M, No. 4, Rev. 4 - Full publication on http://unstats.un.org/unsd/cr/registry/isic-4.asp)
See related
Constitution
Constitution Article 22
Key Information
Convention concerning Benefits in the Case of Employment Injury (Entry into force: 28 Jul 1967)
Adoption: Geneva, 48th ILC session (08 Jul 1964)
Status: Up-to-date instrument (Technical Convention).
15 of 16 02/06/2026, 00:18

--- Page 16 ---
Convention C121 - Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 [S... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
Convention may be denounced: 28 Jul 2027 - 28 Jul 2028
See also
Ratifications by country
Submissions to competent authorities by country
© Copyright and permissions 1996-2024 International Labour Organization (ILO) | Privacy policy | Disclaimer
16 of 16 02/06/2026, 00:18