--- Page 1 ---
Convention C130 - Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, ... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
NORMLEX
Information System on International Labour Standards Search User guide Glossary
C130 - Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, 1969
(No. 130)
Display in: French - Spanish - Arabic - German - Russian - Chinese
Go to article : 1234567891011121314151617181920212223242526272829303132333435363738394041
42434445
Preamble
The General Conference of the International Labour Organisation,
Having been convened at Geneva by the Governing Body of the International Labour Office, and having met in its Fifty-
third Session on 4 June 1969, and
Having decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to the revision of the Sickness Insurance (Industry)
Convention, 1927, and the Sickness Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1927, which is the fifth item on the agenda of the
session, and
Having determined that these proposals shall take the form of an international Convention,
adopts this twenty-fifth day of June of the year one thousand nine hundred and sixty-nine the following Convention, which
may be cited as the Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, 1969:
PART I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1
In this Convention--
(a) the term legislation includes any social security rules as well as laws and regulations;
(b) the term prescribed means determined by or in virtue of national legislation;
(c) the term industrial undertaking includes all undertakings in the following branches of economic activity: mining
and quarrying; manufacturing; construction; electricity, gas and water; and transport, storage and communication;
(d) the term residence means ordinary residence in the territory of the Member and the term resident means a person
ordinarily resident in the territory of the Member;
(e) the term dependent refers to a state of dependency which is presumed to exist in prescribed cases;
(f) the term wife means a wife who is dependent on her husband;
(g) the term child covers--
(i) a child under school-leaving age or under 15 years of age, whichever is the higher: Provided that a Member which
has made a declaration under Article 2 may, while such declaration is in force, apply the Convention as if the term
covered a child under school-leaving age or under 15 years of age; and
1 of 15 02/06/2026, 00:19

--- Page 2 ---
Convention C130 - Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, ... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
(ii) a child under a prescribed age higher than that specified in clause (i) of this subparagraph and who is an apprentice
or student or has a chronic illness or infirmity disabling him for any gainful activity, under prescribed conditions:
Provided that this requirement shall be deemed to be met where national legislation defines the term so as to cover any
child under an age appreciably higher than that specified in clause (i) of this subparagraph;
(h) the term standard beneficiary means a man with a wife and two children;
(i) the term qualifying period means a period of contribution, or a period of employment, or a period of residence, or
any combination thereof, as may be prescribed;
(j) the term sickness means any morbid condition, whatever its cause;
(k) the term medical care includes allied benefits.
Article 2
1. A Member whose economy and medical facilities are insufficiently developed may avail itself, by a declaration accompanying
its ratification, of the temporary exceptions provided for in Article 1, subparagraph (g), clause (i); Article 11; Article 14; Article
20; and Article 26, paragraph 2. Any such declaration shall state the reason for such exceptions.
2. Each Member which has made a declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article shall include in its reports upon the application
of this Convention submitted under article 22 of the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation a statement in
respect of each exception of which it avails itself--
(a) that its reason for doing so subsists; or
(b) that it renounces its right to avail itself of the exception in question as from a stated date.
3. Each Member which has made a declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article shall, as appropriate to the terms of such
declaration and as circumstances permit--
(a) increase the number of persons protected;
(b) extend the range of medical care provided;
(c) extend the duration of sickness benefit.
Article 3
1. Any Member whose legislation protects employees may, by a declaration accompanying its ratification, temporarily exclude
from the application of this Convention the employees in the sector comprising agricultural occupations who, at the time of the
ratification, are not yet protected by legislation which is in conformity with the standards of this Convention.
2. Each Member which has made a declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article shall indicate in its reports upon the application
of this Convention submitted under article 22 of the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation to what extent effect
is given and what effect is proposed to be given to the provisions of the Convention in respect of the employees in the sector
comprising agricultural occupations and any progress which may have been made with a view to the application of the
Convention to such employees or, where there is no change to report, shall furnish all the appropriate explanations.
3. Each Member which has made a declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article shall increase the number of employees
protected in the sector comprising agricultural occupations to the extent and with the speed that the circumstances permit.
Article 4
1. Any Member which ratifies this Convention may, by a declaration accompanying its ratification, exclude from the application
of the Convention--
(a) seafarers, including sea fishermen,
(b) public servants,
where these categories are protected by special schemes which provide in the aggregate benefits at least equivalent to those
required by this Convention.
2 of 15 02/06/2026, 00:19

--- Page 3 ---
Convention C130 - Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, ... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
2. Where a declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article is in force, the Member may--
(a) exclude the persons belonging to the category or categories excluded from the application of the Convention from the
number of persons taken into account when calculating the percentages specified in Article 5, subparagraph (c); Article 10,
subparagraph (b); Article 11; Article 19, subparagraph (b); and Article 20;
(b) exclude the persons belonging to the category or categories excluded from the application of the Convention, as well as
the wives and children of such persons, from the number of persons taken into account when calculating the percentage
specified in Article 10, subparagraph (c).
3. Any Member which has made a declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article may subsequently notify the Director-General of
the International Labour Office that it accepts the obligations of this Convention in respect of a category or categories excluded
at the time of its ratification.
Article 5
Any Member whose legislation protects employees may, as necessary, exclude from the application of this Convention--
(a) persons whose employment is of a casual nature;
(b) members of the employer's family living in his house, in respect of their work for him;
(c) other categories of employees, which shall not exceed in number 10 per cent of all employees other than those excluded
under subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this Article.
Article 6
For the purpose of compliance with this Convention, a Member may take account of protection effected by means of insurance
which, although not made compulsory by its legislation at the time of ratification for the persons to be protected--
(a) is supervised by the public authorities or administered, in accordance with prescribed standards, by joint operation of
employers and workers;
(b) covers a substantial proportion of the persons whose earnings do not exceed those of the skilled manual male employee
defined in Article 22, paragraph 6; and
(c) complies, in conjunction with other forms of protection, where appropriate, with the provisions of the Convention.
Article 7
The contingencies covered shall include--
(a) need for medical care of a curative nature and, under prescribed conditions, need for medical care of a preventive
nature;
(b) incapacity for work resulting from sickness and involving suspension of earnings, as defined by national legislation.
PART II. MEDICAL CARE
Article 8
Each Member shall secure to the persons protected, subject to prescribed conditions, the provision of medical care of a curative
or preventive nature in respect of the contingency referred to in subparagraph (a) of Article 7.
Article 9
The medical care referred to in Article 8 shall be afforded with a view to maintaining, restoring or improving the health of the
person protected and his ability to work and to attend to his personal needs.
Article 10
The persons protected in respect of the contingency referred to in subparagraph (a) of Article 7 shall comprise--
(a) all employees, including apprentices, and the wives and children of such employees; or
(b) prescribed classes of the economically active population, constituting not less than 75 per cent of the whole
3 of 15 02/06/2026, 00:19

--- Page 4 ---
Convention C130 - Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, ... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
economically active population, and the wives and children of persons in the said classes; or
(c) prescribed classes of residents constituting not less than 75 per cent of all residents.
Article 11
Where a declaration made in virtue of Article 2 is in force, the persons protected in respect of the contingency referred to in
subparagraph (a) of Article 7 shall comprise--
(a) prescribed classes of employees, constituting not less than 25 per cent of all employees, and the wives and children of
employees in the said classes; or (b) prescribed classes of employees in industrial undertakings, constituting not less than
50 per cent of all employees in industrial undertakings, and the wives and children of employees in the said classes.
Article 12
Persons who are in receipt of a social security benefit for invalidity, old age, death of the breadwinner or unemployment, and,
where appropriate, the wives and children of such persons, shall continue to be protected, under prescribed conditions, in
respect of the contingency referred to in subparagraph (a) of Article 7.
Article 13
The medical care referred to in Article 8 shall comprise at least--
(a) general practitioner care, including domiciliary visiting;
(b) specialist care at hospitals for in-patients and out-patients, and such specialist care as may be available outside
hospitals;
(c) the necessary pharmaceutical supplies on prescription by medical or other qualified practitioners;
(d) hospitalisation where necessary;
(e) dental care, as prescribed; and
(f) medical rehabilitation, including the supply, maintenance and renewal of prosthetic and orthopaedic appliances, as
prescribed.
Article 14
Where a declaration made in virtue of Article 2 is in force, the medical care referred to in Article 8 shall comprise at least--
(a) general practitioner care, including, wherever possible, domiciliary visiting;
(b) specialist care at hospitals for in-patients and out-patients, and, wherever possible, such specialist care as may be
available outside hospitals;
(c) the necessary pharmaceutical supplies on prescription by medical or other qualified practitioners; and
(d) hospitalisation where necessary.
Article 15
Where the legislation of a Member makes the right to the medical care referred to in Article 8 conditional upon the fulfilment of
a qualifying period by the person protected or by his breadwinner, the conditions governing the qualifying period shall be such
as not to deprive of the right to benefit persons who normally belong to the categories of persons protected.
Article 16
1. The medical care referred to in Article 8 shall be provided throughout the contingency.
2. Where a beneficiary ceases to belong to the categories of persons protected, further entitlement to medical care for a case of
sickness which started while he belonged to the said categories may be limited to a prescribed period which shall not be less
than 26 weeks: Provided that the medical care shall not cease while the beneficiary continues to receive a sickness benefit.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article, the duration of medical care shall be extended for prescribed
diseases recognised as entailing prolonged care.
Article 17
4 of 15 02/06/2026, 00:19

--- Page 5 ---
Convention C130 - Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, ... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
Where the legislation of a Member requires the beneficiary or his breadwinner to share in the cost of the medical care referred
to in Article 8, the rules concerning such cost sharing shall be so designed as to avoid hardship and not to prejudice the
effectiveness of medical and social protection.
PART III. SICKNESS BENEFIT
Article 18
Each Member shall secure to the persons protected, subject to prescribed conditions, the provision of sickness benefit in respect
of the contingency referred to in subparagraph (b) of Article 7.
Article 19
The persons protected in respect of the contingency specified in subparagraph (b) of Article 7 shall comprise--
(a) all employees, including apprentices; or
(b) prescribed classes of the economically active population, constituting not less than 75 per cent of the whole
economically active population; or
(c) all residents whose means during the contingency do not exceed limits prescribed in such a manner as to comply with
the requirements of Article 24.
Article 20
Where a declaration made in virtue of Article 2 is in force, the persons protected in respect of the contingency referred to in
subparagraph (b) of Article 7 shall comprise--
(a) prescribed classes of employees, constituting not less than 25 per cent of all employees; or
(b) prescribed classes of employees in industrial undertakings, constituting not less than 50 per cent of all employees in
industrial undertakings.
Article 21
The sickness benefit referred to in Article 18 shall be a periodical payment and shall--
(a) where employees or classes of the economically active population are protected, be calculated in such a manner as to
comply either with the requirements of Article 22 or with the requirements of Article 23;
(b) where all residents whose means during the contingency do not exceed prescribed limits are protected, be calculated in
such a manner as to comply with the requirements of Article 24.
Article 22
1. In the case of a periodical payment to which this Article applies, the rate of the benefit, increased by the amount of any family
allowances payable during the contingency, shall be such as to attain for the standard beneficiary, in respect of the contingency
referred to in subparagraph (b) of Article 7, at least 60 per cent of the total of the previous earnings of the beneficiary and of the
amount of any family allowances payable to a person protected with the same family responsibilities as the standard beneficiary.
2. The previous earnings of the beneficiary shall be calculated according to prescribed rules, and, where the persons protected
are arranged in classes according to their earnings, their previous earnings may be calculated from the basic earnings of the
classes to which they belonged.
3. A maximum limit may be prescribed for the rate of the benefit or for the earnings taken into account for the calculation of the
benefit, provided that the maximum limit is fixed in such a way that the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article are complied
with where the previous earnings of the beneficiary are equal to or lower than the wage of a skilled manual male employee.
4. The previous earnings of the beneficiary, the wage of the skilled manual male employee, the benefit and any family allowances
shall be calculated on the same time basis.
5. For the other beneficiaries the benefit shall bear a reasonable relation to the benefit for the standard beneficiary.
6. For the purpose of this Article, a skilled manual male employee shall be--
5 of 15 02/06/2026, 00:19

--- Page 6 ---
Convention C130 - Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, ... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
(a) a fitter or turner in the manufacture of machinery other than electrical machinery; or
(b) a person deemed typical of skilled labour selected in accordance with the provisions of the following paragraph; or
(c) a person whose earnings are such as to be equal to or greater than the earnings of 75 per cent of all the persons
protected, such earnings to be determined on the basis of annual or shorter periods as may be prescribed; or
(d) a person whose earnings are equal to 125 per cent of the average earnings of all the persons protected.
7. The person deemed typical of skilled labour for the purposes of subparagraph (b) of the preceding paragraph shall be a person
employed in the major group of economic activities with the largest number of economically active male persons protected in
the contingency referred to in subparagraph (b) of Article 7 in the division comprising the largest number of such persons; for
this purpose, the International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities adopted by the Economic and Social
Council of the United Nations at its Seventh Session on 27 August 1948, as amended up to 1968 and reproduced in the Annex to
this Convention, or such classification as at any time further amended, shall be used.
8. Where the rate of benefit varies by region, the skilled manual male employee may be determined for each region in
accordance with paragraphs 6 and 7 of this Article.
9. The wage of the skilled manual male employee shall be determined on the basis of the rates of wages for normal hours of work
fixed by collective agreements, by or in pursuance of national legislation, where applicable, or by custom, including cost-of-
living allowances if any; where such rates differ by region but paragraph 8 of this Article is not applied, the median rate shall be
taken.
Article 23
1. In the case of a periodical payment to which this Article applies, the rate of the benefit, increased by the amount of any family
allowances payable during the contingency, shall be such as to attain for the standard beneficiary, in respect of the contingency
referred to in subparagraph (b) of Article 7, at least 60 per cent of the total of the wage of an ordinary adult male labourer and of
the amount of any family allowances payable to a person protected with the same family responsibilities as the standard
beneficiary.
2. The wage of the ordinary adult male labourer, the benefit and any family allowances shall be calculated on the same time
basis.
3. For the other beneficiaries, the benefit shall bear a reasonable relation to the benefit for the standard beneficiary.
4. For the purpose of this Article, the ordinary adult male labourer shall be--
(a) a person deemed typical of unskilled labour in the manufacture of machinery other than electrical machinery; or
(b) a person deemed typical of unskilled labour selected in accordance with the provisions of the following paragraph.
5. The person deemed typical of unskilled labour for the purpose of subparagraph (b) of the preceding paragraph shall be a
person employed in the major group of economic activities with the largest number of economically active male persons
protected in the contingency referred to in subparagraph (b) of Article 7 in the division comprising the largest number of such
persons; for this purpose, the International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities adopted by the
Economic and Social Council of the United Nations at its Seventh Session on 27 August 1948, as amended up to 1968 and
reproduced in the Annex to this Convention, or such classification as at any time further amended, shall be used.
6. Where the rate of benefit varies by region, the ordinary adult male labourer may be determined for each region in accordance
with paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Article.
7. The wage of the ordinary adult male labourer shall be determined on the basis of the rates of wages for normal hours of work
fixed by collective agreements, by or in pursuance of national legislation, where applicable, or by custom, including cost-of-
living allowances, if any; where such rates differ by region but paragraph 6 of this Article is not applied, the median rate shall be
taken.
Article 24
In the case of a periodical payment to which this Article applies--
6 of 15 02/06/2026, 00:19

--- Page 7 ---
Convention C130 - Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, ... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
(a) the rate of the benefit shall be determined according to a prescribed scale or a scale fixed by the competent public
authority in conformity with prescribed rules;
(b) such rate may be reduced only to the extent by which the other means of the family of the beneficiary exceed prescribed
substantial amounts or substantial amounts fixed by the competent public authority in conformity with prescribed rules;
(c) the total of the benefit and any other means, after deduction of the substantial amounts referred to in subparagraph (b),
shall be sufficient to maintain the family of the beneficiary in health and decency, and shall be not less than the
corresponding benefit calculated in accordance with the requirements of Article 23;
(d) the provisions of subparagraph (c) shall be deemed to be satisfied if the total amount of sickness benefits paid under
this Convention exceeds by at least 30 per cent the total amount of benefits which would be obtained by applying the
provisions of Article 23 and the provisions of subparagraph (b) of Article 19.
Article 25
Where the legislation of a Member makes the right to the sickness benefit referred to in Article 18 conditional upon the
fulfilment of a qualifying period by the person protected, the conditions governing the qualifying period shall be such as not to
deprive of the right to benefit persons who normally belong to the categories of persons protected.
Article 26
1. The sickness benefit referred to in Article 18 shall be granted throughout the contingency: Provided that the grant of benefit
may be limited to not less than 52 weeks in each case of incapacity, as prescribed.
2. Where a declaration made in virtue of Article 2 is in force, the grant of the sickness benefit referred to in Article 18 may be
limited to not less than 26 weeks in each case of incapacity, as prescribed.
3. Where the legislation of a Member provides that sickness benefit is not payable for an initial period of suspension of earnings,
such period shall not exceed three days.
Article 27
1. In the case of the death of a person who was in receipt of, or qualified for, the sickness benefit referred to in Article 18, a
funeral benefit shall, under prescribed conditions, be paid to his survivors, to any other dependants or to the person who has
borne the expense of the funeral.
2. A member may derogate from the provision of paragraph 1 of this Article where--
(a) it has accepted the obligations of Part IV of the Invalidity, Old-Age and Survivors' Benefits Convention, 1967;
(b) it provides in its legislation for cash sickness benefit at a rate of not less than 80 per cent of the earnings of the persons
protected; and
(c) the majority of persons protected are covered by voluntary insurance which is supervised by the public authorities and
which provides a funeral grant.
PART IV. COMMON PROVISIONS
Article 28
1. A benefit to which a person protected would otherwise be entitled in compliance with this Convention may be suspended to
such extent as may be prescribed--
(a) as long as the person concerned is absent from the territory of the Member;
(b) as long as the person concerned is being indemnified for the contingency by a third party, to the extent of the indemnity;
(c) where the person concerned has made a fraudulent claim;
(d) where the contingency has been caused by a criminal offence committed by the person concerned;
(e) where the contingency has been caused by the serious and wilful misconduct of the person concerned;
(f) where the person concerned, without good cause, neglects to make use of the medical care or the rehabilitation services
7 of 15 02/06/2026, 00:19

--- Page 8 ---
Convention C130 - Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, ... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
placed at his disposal, or fails to comply with rules prescribed for verifying the occurrence or continuance of the
contingency or for the conduct of beneficiaries;
(g) in the case of the sickness benefit referred to in Article 18, as long as the person concerned is maintained at public
expense or at the expense of a social security institution or service; and
(h) in the case of the sickness benefit referred to in Article 18, as long as the person concerned is in receipt of another social
security cash benefit, other than a family benefit, subject to the part of the benefit which is suspended not exceeding the
other benefit.
2. In the cases and within the limits prescribed, part of the benefit otherwise due shall be paid to the dependants of the person
concerned.
Article 29
1. Every claimant shall have a right of appeal in the case of refusal of the benefit or complaint as to its quality or quantity.
2. Where in the application of this Convention a government department responsible to a legislature is entrusted with the
administration of medical care, the right of appeal provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article may be replaced by a right to have
a complaint concerning the refusal of medical care or the quality of the care received investigated by the appropriate authority.
Article 30
1. Each Member shall accept general responsibility for the due provision of the benefits provided in compliance with this
Convention and shall take all measures required for this purpose.
2. Each Member shall accept general responsibility for the proper administration of the institutions and services concerned in
the application of this Convention.
Article 31
Where the administration is not entrusted to an institution regulated by the public authorities or to a government department
responsible to a legislature--
(a) representatives of the persons protected shall participate in the management under prescribed conditions;
(b) national legislation shall, where appropriate, provide for the participation of representatives of employers;
(c) national legislation may likewise decide as to the participation of representatives of the public authorities.
Article 32
Each Member shall, within its territory, assure to non-nationals who normally reside or work there equality of treatment with its
own nationals as regards the right to the benefits provided for in this Convention.
Article 33
1. A Member--
(a) which has accepted the obligations of this Convention without availing itself of the exceptions and exclusions provided
for in Article 2 and Article 3,
(b) which provides over-all higher benefits than those provided in this Convention and whose total relevant expenditure on
medical care and sickness benefits amounts to at least 4 per cent of its national income, and
(c) which satisfies at least two of the three following conditions:
(i) it covers a percentage of the economically active population which is at least ten points higher than the percentage
required by Article 10, subparagraph (b), and by Article 19, subparagraph (b), or a percentage of all residents which is
at least ten points higher than the percentage required by Article 10, subparagraph (c),
(ii) it provides medical care of a curative and preventive nature of an appreciably higher standard than that prescribed
by Article 13,
(iii) it provides sickness benefit corresponding to a percentage at least ten points higher than is required by Articles 22
8 of 15 02/06/2026, 00:19

--- Page 9 ---
Convention C130 - Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, ... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
and 23,
may, after consultation with the most representative organisations of employers and workers, where such exist, make temporary
derogations from particular provisions of Parts II and III of this Convention on condition that such derogation shall neither
fundamentally reduce nor impair the essential guarantees of this Convention.
2. Each Member which has made such a derogation shall indicate in its reports upon the application of this Convention
submitted under article 22 of the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation the position of its law and practice as
regards such derogation and any progress made towards complete application of the terms of the Convention.
Article 34
This Convention shall not apply to--
(a) contingencies which occurred before the coming into force of the Convention for the Member concerned;
(b) benefits in contingencies occurring after the coming into force of the Convention for the Member concerned in so far as
the rights to such benefits are derived from periods preceding that date.
PART V. FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 35
This Convention revises the Sickness Insurance (Industry) Convention, 1927, and the Sickness Insurance (Agriculture)
Convention, 1927.
Article 36
1. In conformity with the provisions of Article 75 of the Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952, Part III of that
Convention and the relevant provisions of other Parts thereof shall cease to apply to any Member having ratified this
Convention as from the date at which this Convention is binding on that Member and no declaration under Article 3 is in force.
2. Acceptance of the obligations of this Convention shall, on condition that no declaration under Article 3 is in force, be deemed
to constitute acceptance of the obligations of Part III of the Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952, and the
relevant provisions of other Parts thereof, for the purpose of Article 2 of the said Convention.
Article 37
If any Convention which may be adopted subsequently by the Conference concerning any subject or subjects dealt with in this
Convention so provides, such provisions of this Convention as may be specified in the said Convention shall cease to apply to
any Member having ratified the said Convention as from the date at which the said Convention comes into force for that
Member.
Article 38
The formal ratifications of this Convention shall be communicated to the Director-General of the International Labour Office for
registration.
Article 39
1. This Convention shall be binding only upon those Members of the International Labour Organisation whose ratifications have
been registered with the Director-General.
2. It shall come into force twelve months after the date on which the ratifications of two Members have been registered with the
Director-General.
3. Thereafter, this Convention shall come into force for any Member twelve months after the date on which its ratifications has
been registered.
Article 40
1. A Member which has ratified this Convention may denounce it after the expiration of ten years from the date on which the
9 of 15 02/06/2026, 00:19

--- Page 10 ---
Convention C130 - Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, ... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
Convention first comes into force, by an act communicated to the Director-General of the International Labour Office for
registration. Such denunciation shall not take effect until one year after the date on which it is registered.
2. Each Member which has ratified this Convention and which does not, within the year following the expiration of the period of
ten years mentioned in the preceding paragraph, exercise the right of denunciation provided for in this Article, will be bound for
another period of ten years and, thereafter, may denounce this Convention at the expiration of each period of ten years under
the terms provided for in this Article.
Article 41
1. The Director-General of the International Labour Office shall notify all Members of the International Labour Organisation of
the registration of all ratifications and denunciations communicated to him by the Members of the Organisation.
2. When notifying the Members of the Organisation of the registration of the second ratification communicated to him, the
Director-General shall draw the attention of the Members of the Organisation to the date upon which the Convention will come
into force.
Article 42
The Director-General of the International Labour Office shall communicate to the Secretary-General of the United Nations for
registration in accordance with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations full particulars of all ratifications and acts of
denunciation registered by him in accordance with the provisions of the preceding Articles.
Article 43
At such times as it may consider necessary the Governing Body of the International Labour Office shall present to the General
Conference a report on the working of this Convention and shall examine the desirability of placing on the agenda of the
Conference the question of its revision in whole or in part.
Article 44
1. Should the Conference adopt a new Convention revising this Convention in whole or in part, then, unless the new Convention
otherwise provides:
(a) the ratification by a Member of the new revising Convention shall ipso jure involve the immediate denunciation of this
Convention, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 40 above, if and when the new revising Convention shall have come
into force;
(b) as from the date when the new revising Convention comes into force this Convention shall cease to be open to
ratification by the Members.
2. This Convention shall in any case remain in force in its actual form and content for those Members which have ratified it but
have not ratified the revising Convention.
Article 45
The English and French versions of the text of this Convention are equally authoritative.
ANNEX
INTERNATIONAL STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION OF ALL ECONOMIC
ACTIVITIES (Revision 4)*
Section A. Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing
Division Description
01 Crop and animal production, hunting and related service activities
02 Forestry and Logging
03 Fishing and aquaculture
10 of 15 02/06/2026, 00:19

--- Page 11 ---
Convention C130 - Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, ... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
Section B. Mining and Quarrying
Division Description
05 Mining of coal and lignite
06 Extraction of crude petroleum and natural gas
07 Mining of metal ores
08 Other mining and quarrying
09 Mining support service activities
Section C. Manufacturing
Division Description
10 Manufacture of food products
11 Manufacture of beverages
12 Manufacture of tobacco products
13 Manufacture of textiles
14 Manufacture of wearing apparel
15 Manufacture of leather and related products
16 Manufacture of wood and of products of wood and cork, except furniture; manufacture of articles of straw
and plaiting materials
17 Manufacture of paper and paper products
18 Printing and reproduction of recorded media
19 Manufacture of coke and refined petroleum products
20 Manufacture of chemicals and chemical products
21 Manufacture of pharmaceuticals, medicinal chemical and botanical products
22 Manufacture of rubber and plastics products
23 Manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products
24 Manufacture of basic metals
25 Manufacture of fabricated metal products, except machinery and equipment
26 Manufacture of computer, electronic and optical products
27 Manufacture of electrical equipment
28 Manufacture of machinery and equipment n.e.c.
29 Manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers
30 Manufacture of other transport equipment
31 Manufacture of furniture
32 Other manufacturing
33 Repair and installation of machinery and equipment
Section D. Electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply
Division Description
11 of 15 02/06/2026, 00:19

--- Page 12 ---
Convention C130 - Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, ... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
35 Electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply
Section E. Water supply; sewerage, waste management and remediation activities
Division Description
36 Water collection, treatment and supply
37 Sewerage
38 Waste collection, treatment and disposal activities; materials recovery
39 Remediation activities and other waste management services
Section F. Construction
Division Description
41 Construction of buildings
42 Civil engineering
43 Specialized construction activities
Section G. Wholesale and retail trade; repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles
Division Description
45 Wholesale and retail trade and repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles
46 Wholesale trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles
47 Retail trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles
Section H. Transportation and storage
Division Description
49 Land transport and transport via pipelines
50 Water transport
51 Air transport
52 Warehousing and support activities for transportation
53 Postal and courier activities
Section I. Accommodation and food service activities
Division Description
55 Accommodation
56 Food and beverage service activities
Section J. Information and communication
Division Description
58 Publishing activities
12 of 15 02/06/2026, 00:19

--- Page 13 ---
Convention C130 - Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, ... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
59 Motion picture, video and television programme production, sound recording and music publishing
activities
60 Programming and broadcasting activities
61 Telecommunications
62 Computer programming, consultancy and related activities
63 Information service activities
Section K. Financial and insurance activities
Division Description
64 Financial service activities, except insurance and pension funding
65 Insurance, reinsurance and pension funding, except compulsory social security
66 Activities auxiliary to financial service and insurance activities
Section L. Real estate activities
Division Description
68 Real estate activities
Section M. Professional, scientific and technical activities
Division Description
69 Legal and accounting activities
70 Activities of head offices; management consultancy activities
71 Architectural and engineering activities; technical testing and analysis
72 Scientific research and development
73 Advertising and market research
74 Other professional, scientific and technical activities
75 Veterinary activities
Section N. Administrative and support service activities
Division Description
77 Rental and leasing activities
78 Employment activities
79 Travel agency, tour operator, reservation service and related activities
80 Security and investigation activities
81 Services to buildings and landscape activities
82 Office administrative, office support and other business support activities
Section O. Public administration and defence; compulsory social security
Division Description
13 of 15 02/06/2026, 00:19

--- Page 14 ---
Convention C130 - Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, ... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
84 Public administration and defence; compulsory social security
Section P. Education
Division Description
85 Education
Section Q. Human health and social work activities
Division Description
86 Human health activities
87 Residential care activities
88 Social work activities without accommodation
Section R. Arts, entertainment and recreation
Division Description
90 Creative, arts and entertainment activities
91 Libraries, archives, museums and other cultural activities
92 Gambling and betting activities
93 Sports activities and amusement and recreation activities
Section S. Other service activities
Division Description
94 Activities of membership organizations
95 Repair of computers and personal and household goods
96 Other personal service activities
Section T. Activities of households as employers; undifferentiated goods- and services-
producing activities of households for own use
Division Description
97 Activities of households as employers of domestic personnel
98 Undifferentiated goods- and services-producing activities of private households for own use
Section U. Activities of extraterritorial organizations and bodies
Division Description
99 Activities of extraterritorial organizations and bodies
* Note: : In accordance with articles 22(7) and 23(5) of the Convention, its original Annex has been updated with the
amended version of the International standard industrial classification of all economic activities (ISIC) Rev. 4, as
approved by the Statistical Commission of the UN Economic and Social Council in March 2006 (Statistical Papers,
14 of 15 02/06/2026, 00:19

--- Page 15 ---
Convention C130 - Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, ... https://normlex.ilo.org/dyn/nrmlx_en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:12100:0:...
Series M No. 4, Rev. 4 – Full text on http://unstats.un.org/unsd/cr/registry/isic-4.asp).
See related
Constitution
Constitution Article 22
Key Information
Convention concerning Medical Care and Sickness Benefits (Entry into force: 27 May 1972)
Adoption: Geneva, 53rd ILC session (25 Jun 1969)
Status: Up-to-date instrument (Technical Convention).
Convention may be denounced: 27 May 2032 - 27 May 2033
See also
Ratifications by country
Submissions to competent authorities by country
© Copyright and permissions 1996-2024 International Labour Organization (ILO) | Privacy policy | Disclaimer
15 of 15 02/06/2026, 00:19