--- Page 1 ---
Convention No. 183
Convention concerning the Revision of the Maternity
Protection Convention (Revised), 1952
The General Conference of the International Labour Organization,
Having been convened at Geneva by the Governing Body of the International Labour Office,
and having met in its 88th Session on 30 May 2000, and
Noting the need to revise the Maternity Protection Convention (Revised), 1952, and the
Maternity Protection Recommendation, 1952, in order to further promote equality of all
women in the workforce and the health and safety of the mother and child, and in order to
recognize the diversity in economic and social development of Members, as well as the
diversity of enterprises, and the development of the protection of maternity in national law
and practice, and
Noting the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948), the United Nations
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (1979), the
United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (1989), the Beijing Declaration and
Platform for Action (1995), the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on
Equality of Opportunity and Treatment for Women Workers (1975), the International
Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and its
Follow-up (1998), as well as the international labour Conventions and Recommendations
aimed at ensuring equality of opportunity and treatment for men and women workers, in
particular the Convention concerning Workers with Family Responsibilities, 1981, and
Taking into account the circumstances of women workers and the need to provide protection
for pregnancy, which are the shared responsibility of government and society, and
Having decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to the revision of the
Maternity Protection Convention (Revised), 1952, and Recommendation, 1952, which is
the fourth item on the agenda of the session, and
Having determined that these proposals shall take the form of an international Convention;
adopts this fifteenth day of June of the year two thousand the following Convention, which may
be cited as the Maternity Protection Convention, 2000.
Article 1
For the purposes of this Convention, the term “woman” applies to any female person without
discrimination whatsoever and the term “child” applies to any child without discrimination
whatsoever.
Article 2
1. This Convention applies to all employed women, including those in atypical forms of
dependent work.
2. However, each Member which ratifies this Convention may, after consulting the
representative organizations of employers and workers concerned, exclude wholly or partly from the
scope of the Convention limited categories of workers when its application to them would raise
special problems of a substantial nature.
3. Each Member which avails itself of the possibility afforded in the preceding paragraph
shall, in its first report on the application of the Convention under article 22 of the Constitution of the
International Labour Organization, list the categories of workers thus excluded and the reasons for
their exclusion. In its subsequent reports, the Member shall describe the measures taken with a view
to progressively extending the provisions of the Convention to these categories.
1 ILO Gender Network Handbook (editions 2006), section 1

--- Page 2 ---
HEALTH PROTECTION
Article 3
Each Member shall, after consulting the representative organizations of employers and workers,
adopt appropriate measures to ensure that pregnant or breastfeeding women are not obliged to
perform work which has been determined by the competent authority to be prejudicial to the health of
the mother or the child, or where an assessment has established a significant risk to the mother’s
health or that of her child.
MATERNITY LEAVE
Article 4
1. On production of a medical certificate or other appropriate certification, as determined by
national law and practice, stating the presumed date of childbirth, a woman to whom this Convention
applies shall be entitled to a period of maternity leave of not less than 14 weeks.
2. The length of the period of leave referred to above shall be specified by each Member in a
declaration accompanying its ratification of this Convention.
3. Each Member may subsequently deposit with the Director-General of the International
Labour Office a further declaration extending the period of maternity leave.
4. With due regard to the protection of the health of the mother and that of the child, maternity
leave shall include a period of six weeks’ compulsory leave after childbirth, unless otherwise agreed
at the national level by the government and the representative organizations of employers and
workers.
5. The prenatal portion of maternity leave shall be extended by any period elapsing between
the presumed date of childbirth and the actual date of childbirth, without reduction in any compulsory
portion of postnatal leave.
LEAVE IN CASE OF ILLNESS OR COMPLICATIONS
Article 5
On production of a medical certificate, leave shall be provided before or after the maternity leave
period in the case of illness, complications or risk of complications arising out of pregnancy or
childbirth. The nature and the maximum duration of such leave may be specified in accordance with
national law and practice.
BENEFITS
Article 6
1. Cash benefits shall be provided, in accordance with national laws and regulations, or in any
other manner consistent with national practice, to women who are absent from work on leave referred
to in Articles 4 or 5.
2. Cash benefits shall be at a level which ensures that the woman can maintain herself and her
child in proper conditions of health and with a suitable standard of living.
3. Where, under national law or practice, cash benefits paid with respect to leave referred to in
Article 4 are based on previous earnings, the amount of such benefits shall not be less than two-thirds
of the woman’s previous earnings or of such of those earnings as are taken into account for the
purpose of computing benefits.
2 ILO Gender Network Handbook (editions 2006), section 1

--- Page 3 ---
4. Where, under national law or practice, other methods are used to determine the cash benefits
paid with respect to leave referred to in Article 4, the amount of such benefits shall be comparable to
the amount resulting on average from the application of the preceding paragraph.
5. Each Member shall ensure that the conditions to qualify for cash benefits can be satisfied by
a large majority of the women to whom this Convention applies.
6. Where a woman does not meet the conditions to qualify for cash benefits under national
laws and regulations or in any other manner consistent with national practice, she shall be entitled to
adequate benefits out of social assistance funds, subject to the means test required for such assistance.
7. Medical benefits shall be provided for the woman and her child in accordance with national
laws and regulations or in any other manner consistent with national practice. Medical benefits shall
include prenatal, childbirth and postnatal care, as well as hospitalization care when necessary.
8. In order to protect the situation of women in the labour market, benefits in respect of the
leave referred to in Articles 4 and 5 shall be provided through compulsory social insurance or public
funds, or in a manner determined by national law and practice. An employer shall not be individually
liable for the direct cost of any such monetary benefit to a woman employed by him or her without
that employer’s specific agreement except where:
(a) such is provided for in national law or practice in a member State prior to the date of adoption
of this Convention by the International Labour Conference; or
(b) it is subsequently agreed at the national level by the government and the representative
organizations of employers and workers.
Article 7
1. A Member whose economy and social security system are insufficiently developed shall be
deemed to be in compliance with Article 6, paragraphs 3 and 4, if cash benefits are provided at a rate
no lower than a rate payable for sickness or temporary disability in accordance with national laws and
regulations.
2. A Member which avails itself of the possibility afforded in the preceding paragraph shall, in
its first report on the application of this Convention under article 22 of the Constitution of the
International Labour Organization, explain the reasons therefor and indicate the rate at which cash
benefits are provided. In its subsequent reports, the Member shall describe the measures taken with a
view to progressively raising the rate of benefits.
EMPLOYMENT PROTECTION AND NON-DISCRIMINATION
Article 8
1. It shall be unlawful for an employer to terminate the employment of a woman during her
pregnancy or absence on leave referred to in Articles 4 or 5 or during a period following her return to
work to be prescribed by national laws or regulations, except on grounds unrelated to the pregnancy
or birth of the child and its consequences or nursing. The burden of proving that the reasons for
dismissal are unrelated to pregnancy or childbirth and its consequences or nursing shall rest on the
employer.
2. A woman is guaranteed the right to return to the same position or an equivalent position
paid at the same rate at the end of her maternity leave.
Article 9
1. Each Member shall adopt appropriate measures to ensure that maternity does not constitute
a source of discrimination in employment, including – notwithstanding Article 2, paragraph 1 –
access to employment.
3 ILO Gender Network Handbook (editions 2006), section 1

--- Page 4 ---
2. Measures referred to in the preceding paragraph shall include a prohibition from requiring a
test for pregnancy or a certificate of such a test when a woman is applying for employment, except
where required by national laws or regulations in respect of work that is:
(a) prohibited or restricted for pregnant or nursing women under national laws or regulations; or
(b) where there is a recognized or significant risk to the health of the woman and child.
BREASTFEEDING MOTHERS
Article 10
1. A woman shall be provided with the right to one or more daily breaks or a daily reduction of
hours of work to breastfeed her child.
2. The period during which nursing breaks or the reduction of daily hours of work are allowed,
their number, the duration of nursing breaks and the procedures for the reduction of daily hours of
work shall be determined by national law and practice. These breaks or the reduction of daily hours of
work shall be counted as working time and remunerated accordingly.
PERIODIC REVIEW
Article 11
Each Member shall examine periodically, in consultation with the representative organizations
of employers and workers, the appropriateness of extending the period of leave referred to in Article 4
or of increasing the amount or the rate of the cash benefits referred to in Article 6.
IMPLEMENTATION
Article 12
This Convention shall be implemented by means of laws or regulations, except in so far as
effect is given to it by other means such as collective agreements, arbitration awards, court decisions,
or in any other manner consistent with national practice.
FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 13
This Convention revises the Maternity Protection Convention (Revised), 1952.
(Final Provisions)
4 ILO Gender Network Handbook (editions 2006), section 1