--- Page 1 ---
Building
social protection systems:
International standards and
human rights instruments
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE
Geneva

--- Page 2 ---
Copyright © International Labour Organization 2019
Third published 2021
Publications of the International Labour Office enjoy copyright under Protocol 2 of the Universal
Copyright Convention. Nevertheless, short excerpts from them may be reproduced without
authorization, on condition that the source is indicated. For rights of reproduction or translation,
application should be made to ILO Publications (Rights and Licensing), International Labour Office, CH-
1211 Geneva 22, Switzerland, or by email: rights@ilo.org. The International Labour Office welcomes
such applications.
Libraries, institutions and other users registered with a reproduction rights organization may make
copies in accordance with the licences issued to them for this purpose. Visit www.ifrro.org to find the
reproduction rights organization in your country.
Building social protection systems: International standards and human rights instruments
International Labour Office – Geneva: ILO, 2021
ISBN 978-92-2-130943-7 (print)
ISBN 978-92-2-130944-4 (web pdf)
International Labour Office
Social security / social protection / social security policy / ILO standards
02.03.1
ILO Cataloguing in Publication Data
The designations employed in ILO publications, which are in conformity with United Nations practice,
and the presentation of material therein do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the
part of the International Labour Office concerning the legal status of any country, area or territory or of
its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers.
The responsibility for opinions expressed in signed articles, studies and other contributions rests solely
with their authors, and publication does not constitute an endorsement by the International Labour Office
of the opinions expressed in them.
Reference to names of firms and commercial products and processes does not imply their endorsement
by the International Labour Office, and any failure to mention a particular firm, commercial product or
process is not a sign of disapproval.
Information on ILO publications and digital products can be found at: www.ilo.org/publns.
Printed by the International Labour Office, Geneva, Switzerland

--- Page 3 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Table of contents
Page
Introduction ........................................................................................... 1
ILO Conventions ................................................................................... 21
C102 – Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952 .......... 21
C118 – Equality of Treatment (Social Security) Convention, 1962 ....... 36
C121 – Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 ......................... 39
C128 – Invalidity, Old-Age and Survivors’ Benefits Convention, 1967 .. 48
C130 – Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, 1969 ........... 60
C157 – Maintenance of Social Security Rights Convention, 1982 ........ 67
C168 – Employment Promotion and Protection against Unemployment
Convention, 1988 ........................................................................ 74
C183 – Maternity Protection Convention, 2000 ..................................... 81
ILO Recommendations......................................................................... 85
R067 – Income Security Recommendation, 1944 ................................. 85
R069 – Medical Care Recommendation, 1944 ...................................... 95
R121 – Employment Injury Benefits Recommendation, 1964 ............... 104
R131 – Invalidity, Old-Age and Survivors’ Benefits Recommendation,
1967 ........................................................................................... 106
R134 – Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Recommendation, 1969 . 108
R167 – Maintenance of Social Security Rights Recommendation,
1983 ........................................................................................... 109
R176 – Employment Promotion and Protection against
Unemployment Recommendation, 1988 ................................ 126
R191 – Maternity Protection Recommendation, 2000 ........................... 129
R202 – Social Protection Floors Recommendation, 2012 ..................... 131
R204 – Transition from the Informal to the Formal Economy
Recommendation, 2015 (No. 204) ............................................. 135
R205 – Employment and Decent Work for Peace and Resilience
Recommendation, 2017 .............................................................. 142
iii

--- Page 4 ---
Building social protection systems
Page
ILO Constitution, Declarations and Resolutions ............................... 151
ILO Constitution, 1919 ............................................................................ 151
Declaration concerning the aims and purposes of the International
Labour Organisation (Declaration of Philadelphia), 1944 ....... 161
ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and
its Follow-up, 1998 ......................................................................... 163
ILO Declaration on Social Justice for a Fair Globalization, 2008 ........... 165
Recovering from the Crisis: a Global Jobs Pact, 2009 ........................... 170
Resolution and conclusions concerning social security, International
Labour Conference, 89th Session, 2001 ...................................... 175
Resolution and conclusions concerning the recurrent discussion
on social protection (social security), International Labour
Conference, 100th Session, 2011 ................................................ 178
Resolution concerning efforts to make social protection floors
a national reality worldwide, International Labour Conference,
101st Session, 2012 ..................................................................... 187
Resolution and conclusions on employment and social protection
in the new demographic context, International Labour
Conference, 102nd Session, 2013 ............................................... 188
Resolution on Advancing Social Justice through Decent Work, 2016 ... 192
ILO Centenary Declaration for the Future of Work, International
Labour Conference, 108th Session, 2019 .................................... 197
Relevant international human rights instruments ................................... 201
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1948........................................ 201
International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, 1966 204
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination
against Women, 1979 .................................................................. 209
Convention on the Rights of the Child, 1989 .......................................... 218
Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, 2006 ................. 228
Annexes
I. Sustainable Development Goals Relevant to Social Protection .. 247
II. Minimum requirements in ILO social security standards:
Overview tables ............................................................................ 249
III. Table of ratification of ILO up-to-date social security
conventions .................................................................................. 268
IV. Map of ratification of ILO up-to-date social security conventions . 275
V. List of other relevant instruments ................................................. 276
VI. Additional useful references ......................................................... 279
iv

--- Page 5 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Page
Tables
1. List of ILO up-to-date social security standards ........................... 8
2. Sustainable Development Goals Relevant to Social Protection .. 247
3. Main requirements: ILO social security standards
on health protection ...................................................................... 249
4. Main requirements: ILO social security standards
on sickness benefits ..................................................................... 251
5. Main requirements: ILO social security standards
on unemployment protection ........................................................ 253
6. Main requirements: ILO social security standards
on income security in old age (old-age pensions) ........................ 255
7. Main requirements: ILO social security standards
on employment injury protection .................................................. 257
8. Main requirements: ILO social security standards
on family/child benefits ................................................................. 260
9. Main requirements: ILO social security standards
on maternity protection ................................................................. 261
10. Main requirements: ILO social security standards
on disability benefits ..................................................................... 263
11. Main requirements: ILO social security standards
on survivors’ benefits .................................................................... 265
12. Ratification of ILO up-to-date social security conventions,
by region ....................................................................................... 268
v

--- Page 6 --- [pas de texte extractible]

--- Page 7 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Introduction
This compendium contains a selection of the most relevant international
instruments that establish the human right to social security and provide
guidance for building comprehensive social security systems 1 at national level.
These include the standards and conclusions adopted by the International
Labour Organization (hereinafter referred to as ILO) in the field of social security
and the main human rights instruments spelling out the right to social security
adopted under the auspices of the United Nations.
The compendium is intended to serve as a reference for practitioners, policy-
makers and other stakeholders, as well as a guidebook for the general public.
Ultimately, it is hoped that it will contribute to a wider knowledge and use of
these instruments, thereby strengthening their impact.
Part I describes these instruments and their contents, as well as explaining their
purpose and relevance for furthering social protection rights worldwide. Part II
reproduces the contents of the above-mentioned instruments. For ease of
reference, Annex I presents the sustainable development objectives related to
social protection. Annex II contains tables presenting the key requirements set
out in ILO social security standards. A table presenting the status of ratifications
of ILO social security Conventions is found in Annex III. A world map illustrating
the state of ratification of ILO up-to-date social security standards is displayed
in Annex IV. Other relevant instruments including regional social security
instruments, regional coordination instruments, and other relevant ILO
standards covering specific categories of workers are listed in Annex V, while
Annex VI provides a list of additional references.
The international legal framework
Over the years, the standards adopted by the ILO to guide countries in the
establishment and maintenance of sound social security systems have played
a substantial role in furthering the implementation of the right to social security,
as laid down in international human rights instruments. Together, these two sets
of instruments, complemented by internationally negotiated policy guidelines,
provide a comprehensive framework for the concretization of a rights-based
approach to social security in national and regional law and practice.
1 This term is used interchangeably with “social protection systems”. The ILO usually uses the term “social
security”, with reference to the human right to social security set out in the Universal Declaration on
Human Rights, 1948 (Art. 22), the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, 1966
(Art. 9) and other UN human rights instruments. This term encompasses a broad variety of policy instru-
ments, including social insurance, social assistance, universal benefits and other forms of cash transfers,
as well as measures to ensure effective access to health care and other benefits in kind aiming at securing
social protection. For more detail, see ILO: ILO: World Social Protection Report 2017-19: Universal social
protection to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (Geneva, 2017), p. 195.
1

--- Page 8 ---
Building social protection systems
The right to social security in international human rights instruments
From an international legal perspective, the recognition of the right to social
security has been developed through universally negotiated and accepted
instruments that establish social security as a basic social right to which every
human being is entitled. In this way, the right to social security has been
enshrined in several human rights instruments adopted by the United Nations,
and is expressly formulated as such in fundamental human rights instruments,
namely the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) 2 and the
International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR). 3
Specifically, Article 22 of the UDHR lays down that:
Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to social security
and is entitled to realization, through national effort and
international cooperation and in accordance with the organization
and resources of each state, of the economic, social and cultural
rights indispensable for his dignity and the free development of
his personality.
And states in its Article 25 that:
(1) Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for
the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including
food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social
services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment,
sickness, invalidity, widowhood, old age or other lack of
livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.
(2) Motherhood and childhood are entitled to special care and
assistance. All children, whether born in or out of wedlock, shall
enjoy the same social protection.
The ICESCR stipulates in its Article 9 that:
[t]he States Parties to the present Covenant recognize the right
of everyone to social security, including social insurance.
The right to social security is also enshrined in UN legal instruments setting out
the rights of specific population groups, such as the Convention on the
Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (1979), 4 the
Convention on the Rights of the Child (1989), 5 the Convention on the
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, (1965), 6 the International
Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Their
Families (1990), 7 and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities
(2006). 8
2 United Nations: Universal Declaration of Human Rights, General Assembly Resolution 217 A (III), 1948.
3 United Nations: International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, General Assembly Res-
olution 2200A (XXI), 1966.
4 Articles 11(1)(e), 11 (2)(b) and 14(2).
5 Articles 26, 27(1), 27(2) and 27(3).
6 Article 5(e)(iv).
7 Articles 27 and 54.
8 Article 28.
2

--- Page 9 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
While the UDHR constitutes an unchallenged statement of fundamental human
rights, the ICESCR and other specific UN Conventions have the quality of
treaties, which create binding obligations upon ratification. As for other rights
enshrined in these instruments, States’ obligation in the implementation of the
right to social security is one of progressive realization, as they undertake, upon
ratification, to take steps towards the full realization of this right, to the maximum
of their available resources.
The Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (CESCR), which
monitors the implementation of the ICESCR, has progressively developed the
content of the right to social security through its examination of country cases
and its interpretation of this right in the 2008 General Comment 19. 9. For such
purpose, reference is made to the ILO’s constitutional documents, as well as to
the body of technical social security Conventions and Recommendations
adopted by the ILO, notably the Social Security (Minimum Standards)
Convention, 1952 (No. 102) and more recently, the Social Protection Floors
Recommendation, 2012 (No. 202). Drawing from these instruments, the 2008
General Comment 19 defines the right to social security as encompassing:
the right to access and maintain benefits, whether in cash or in
kind, without discrimination in order to secure protection, inter
alia, from (a) lack of work-related income caused by sickness,
disability, maternity, employment injury, unemployment, old age,
or death of a family member; (b) unaffordable access to health
care; (c) insufficient family support, particularly for children and
adult dependents. (para. 2)
It further details the constitutive elements of this right, which consist mainly in
the following:
 Availability of the social security system: A sustainable social security
system, and constituting schemes, must be available and in place,
established by law and under the responsibility of public authorities, to
ensure that benefits are provided for the relevant social risks and
contingencies for present and future generations. (para. 11)
 Comprehensive coverage of social risks and circumstances: The
social security system should provide, in law and in practice, benefits for
the nine principal branches of social security, namely: health care,
sickness, old age, unemployment, employment injury, family and child
support, maternity, disability, survivors and orphans. (paras. 12–21)
 Accessibility of social security benefits: All persons must be covered
by the system, without discrimination and taking into account specific
needs. Qualifying conditions for benefits must be reasonable,
proportionate and transparent. Social security contributions and other
costs of the system must be affordable for all. Beneficiaries must be able
to participate in the administration of the system. Benefits should be
9 General Comments are authoritative statements of the CESCR of its interpretation of the rights en-
shrined in the ICESCR. Adopted by most human rights treaty bodies, they can be used to guide States in
the implementation of those rights and to assess compliance with related obligations. It may also be noted
that the Optional Protocol to the ICESCR, which entered into force in 2013, widens the competence of the
CESCR to receive complaints in case of violations of the rights enshrined in the ICESCR, including the right
to social security.
3

--- Page 10 ---
Building social protection systems
provided in a timely manner and beneficiaries should have physical
access to the social security services; the special needs of certain groups
of the population should be duly considered to ensure they too have
access. (paras. 23–27)
Relationship with other human rights
As part of the broader family of human rights, the right to social security is to be
seen in conjunction with the other rights recognized by the UDHR, the ICESCR
and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. All human rights
are indeed considered indivisible, interdependent and inalienable. In other
words, they should be seen as an inseparable package, with equal status,
where the fulfilment of one right depends on the fulfilment of the other. Indeed,
there is strong evidence that social protection is both strengthened but other
economic, social and cultural rights but also plays a critical enabling role in
reinforcing these. In this regard, the CESCR has further recognised that States
have an immediate duty to ensure that social security schemes provide
minimum essential levels of benefits to all in a manner which enables them to
at least acquire “essential health care, basic shelter and housing, water and
sanitation, foodstuffs, and the most basic forms of education”. 10
In particular therefore, the right to the enjoyment of the highest attainable
standard of physical and mental health, as set out for example at Article 25 of
the UDHR and Article 12 of the ICESCR, is inseparable from the right to social
security. The same interdependence exists as regards the right to an adequate
standard of living, the right to food and water and sanitation, the right to
education and housing, labour rights, as well as certain civil and political
rights. 11 Such interdependence calls therefore for close coordination across
social protection and other economic, social and political policies and legal
frameworks.
Social security for all, at the core of the ILO’s mandate
The promotion of the right to social security has been an important part of the
ILO’s mandate since its founding in 1919. 12 From then onwards, the ILO was
established as the authority in this field. To this effect, the Preamble of the ILO
Constitution states that the Organization’s mandate is to improve conditions of
labour through, among others,
the prevention of unemployment, … the protection of the worker
against sickness, disease, and injury arising out of his
employment, the protection of children, young persons and
women, provision for old age and injury.
10 General Comment No. 19 (The right to social security (Art. 9 of the Covenant), 4 Feb. 2008,
E./C.12/GC/19, para. 59).
11 For more information on the relationship between the right to social security and other human rights
visit the Social Protection and Human Rights Platform: https://socialprotection-humanrights.org/.
12 ILO: Constitution of the International Labour Organisation, 1 April 1919, Preamble and Article 1.
4

--- Page 11 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
The ILO’s mandate was widened in 1944 by the Declaration of Philadelphia, the
first international legal instrument to stipulate the right to social security as a
right belonging to all, and the first expression of the world community’s
commitment to the extension of social security to all. The Declaration, which
then became part of the ILO Constitution, lays down the “solemn obligation of
the International Labour Organization to further among the nations of the world
programmes which will achieve”, among others, “the extension of social security
measures to provide a basic income to all in need of such protection and
comprehensive medical care”, as well as “provision for child welfare and
maternity protection”. 13
Over 50 years later, in 2001, social security was reaffirmed by the International
Labour Conference (ILC) as a fundamental human right, and its extension to all
in need was restated as a fundamental part of the ILO’s mandate and a
challenge that needed to be addressed seriously and urgently by all member
States. 14 Consequently, the ILO launched in 2003 the Global Campaign on
Social Security and Coverage for All. The ILO Declaration on Social Justice for
a Fair Globalization, adopted by the International Labour Conference in 2008,
again reaffirmed the commitment to extend social security to all in need of such
protection in the framework of the Decent Work Agenda.
In 2009, the International Labour Conference recognized the crucial role of
social protection policies in crisis response, and the Global Jobs Pact called for
countries to “give consideration, as appropriate, to building adequate social
protection for all, drawing on a basic social protection floor”.
In June 2011, the ILC adopted a Resolution and Conclusions which set out the
strategy of the ILO with regard to addressing the challenge of extending
coverage and further developing social security systems. 15 Based on the
premise that social security is a human right and a social and economic
necessity, the ILC noted that closing coverage gaps was of highest priority for
equitable economic growth, social cohesion and decent work for all women and
men. It called for the extension of social security coverage through a two-
dimensional approach, with a view to building comprehensive social security
systems. The Social Protection Floors Recommendation, 2012 (No. 202),
adopted by the ILC in June 2012, completed the ILO’s social security strategy.
According to the Recommendation, effective national strategies to extend social
security, in line with national circumstances, should aim at achieving universal
protection of the population by ensuring at least minimum levels of income
security and access to essential health care (horizontal dimension), as well as
progressively ensuring higher levels of protection guided by up-to-date ILO
13 ILO: Declaration concerning the aims and purposes of the International Labour Organisation (Declara-
tion of Philadelphia), adopted by the International Labour Conference at its 26th Session, held in Philadel-
phia, on 10 May 1944, Articles III (f) and (h).
14 ILO: Social security: A new consensus, Resolution and Conclusions concerning social security, Interna-
tional Labour Conference, 89th Session, Geneva, 2001.
15 ILO: Conclusions concerning the recurrent discussion on social protection (social security), International
Labour Conference, 100th Session, Geneva, 2011, in Record of Proceedings (Geneva, 2011), No. 24: Report
of the Committee for the Recurrent Discussion on Social Protection (Geneva), para. 31.
5

--- Page 12 ---
Building social protection systems
social security standards (vertical dimension). In line with national priorities,
resources and circumstances, such two-dimensional strategies should aim at
building and maintaining comprehensive and adequate social security
systems. 16
As the ILO century, the ILC adopted a landmark Centenary Declaration in June
2019 with the purpose of providing further guidance to the ILO and its
constituents in respect of the challenges and opportunities for the future of work,
ranging from technology to climate change, from demographic shifts to the need
for new skills. Like the Declaration of Philadelphia, the new Declaration is an
authoritative statement of the entire ILO membership which takes stock of the
current challenges and context and reaffirms constituents attach to core values
and principles. As such, it will serve to guide ILO's and its constituent's action in
the future.
The Centenary Declaration stresses the need for the ILO to carry forward “with
unrelenting vigour its constitutional mandate for social justice by further
developing its human-centred approach to the future of work” (para. I (D)).
Pointing to the role of social protection in shaping a fair, inclusive and secure
future of work and , it calls on the ILO to direct its efforts in particular “to
developing and enhancing social protection systems, which are adequate,
sustainable and adapted to developments in the world of work” (para. II A (xv))
recognising, as such, its function for achieving a just and sustainable future. It
further calls upon all Members, to strengthen the capacities of all people to
benefit from the opportunities of a changing world of work, inter alia, through
“universal access to comprehensive and sustainable social protection”
(para. III (A) (iii)). 17
ILO social security standards: A reference framework for building
universal social protection systems
In pursuit of its mandate in the field of social security and in its capacity as the
responsible UN agency, the ILO has over the years adopted a range of
standards laying down concrete obligations and guidelines for States to
implement the right to social security by developing and maintaining
comprehensive and sustainable social protection systems. ILO social security
standards take the form of either Conventions or Recommendations and lay
down internationally agreed standards in the field of social security.
Conventions are international treaties, designed with a view to being ratified and
thereby creating legal obligations for States. While Recommendations are not
open for ratification, they provide general or technical guidelines and often
supplement corresponding Conventions.
These Conventions and Recommendations are elaborated and adopted by the
Organization’s tripartite constituents: governments, and employers and workers
16 For a more detailed account see: ILO: Social security for all: Building social protection floors and com-
prehensive social security systems. The strategy of the International Labour Organization (Geneva, 2012).
17 ILO Centenary Declaration for the Future of Work International Labour Conference, 108th Session, Ge-
neva, 2019.
6

--- Page 13 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
organizations representing all ILO member States at the International Labour
Conference. They are the main references guiding ILO policy and technical
advice in the field of social protection.
With a total of 31 Conventions adopted over the years, the ILO is the
international institution producing the largest number of binding instruments in
this field. For this reason, ILO social security standards, and notably the
landmark Convention No. 102, have come to be recognized globally as key
references for the design of rights-based, sound and sustainable social
protection schemes and systems. Indeed, these are primarily tools for
governments which, in consultation with employers and workers, are seeking to
draft and implement social security law, establish administrative and financial
governance frameworks, and develop social protection policies. More
specifically, these standards serve as key references for:
 the elaboration of national social security extension strategies;
 the development and maintenance of comprehensive national social
security systems;
 the design and parametric adjustments of social security schemes;
 the establishment and implementation of effective recourse, enforcement
and compliance mechanisms;
 the good governance of social security and improvement of administrative
and financial structures;
 the realization of international and regional obligations, and the
operationalization of Decent Work Country Programmes; and
 working towards the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals,
particularly goals 1, 3, 5, 8, 10 and 16.
Three generations of social security standards
Historically and conceptually, social security standards can be classified into
three different groups or generations of standards, according to the approach of
social security that they embodied at the time of their adoption.
The first generation of standards corresponds to the instruments adopted since
the creation of the ILO until the end of the Second World War. These standards
are aimed at establishing compulsory social insurance systems for specific
branches and at covering the principal sectors of activity and the main
categories of workers.
The second generation of standards aimed at unifying and coordinating the
various social protection schemes within a single social security system
covering all contingencies and extending social security coverage to all workers.
This new conception is reflected in the flagship Convention No. 102.
The third generation of standards corresponds to the instruments adopted after
Convention No. 102. Modelled on the latter, they offer a higher level of
protection in terms of population covered and benefit levels, and revise first-
generation standards.
7

--- Page 14 ---
Building social protection systems
The adoption of Recommendation No. 202 in 2012 marks the beginning of a
new phase in ILO social security standard-setting, which could be referred to as
“universal social security coverage and comprehensive systems”.
Recommendation No. 202 envisages the development of such systems
extending coverage, progressively, to all members of society, with a view to
realizing the human right to social security.
A unique and flexible set of tools to improve the outcomes of social
protection systems
Today, eight Conventions and nine Recommendations set up-to-date
international standards in the field of social protection. They are designed to
ensure the provision of adequate income and health protection to the
population, addressing the lack or loss of earnings and the need to access
medical care and health services resulting from the occurrence of certain life
risks or circumstances (see table 1).
Table 1. List of ILO up-to-date social security standards
 Income Security Recommendation, 1944 (No. 67)
 Medical Care Recommendation, 1944 (No. 69)
 Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952 (No. 102)
 Equality of Treatment (Social Security) Convention, 1962 (No. 118)
 Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 (No. 121), and Recommenda-
tion, 1964 (No. 121)
 Invalidity, Old-Age and Survivors’ Benefits Convention, 1967 (No. 128), and
Recommendation, 1967 (No. 131)
 Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, 1969 (No. 130), and Recom-
mendation, 1969 (No. 134)
 Maintenance of Social Security Rights Convention, 1982 (No. 157), and Rec-
ommendation, 1983 (No. 167)
 Employment Promotion and Protection against Unemployment Convention,
1988 (No. 168), and Recommendation, 1988 (No. 176)
 Maternity Protection Convention, 2000 (No. 183), and Recommendation, 2000
(No. 191)
 Social Protection Floors Recommendation, 2012 (No. 202)
ILO social security standards are unique: they establish standards that States
set for themselves. These standards build on good practices and innovative
ways of providing enhanced and extended social protection in countries from all
regions of the world. At the same time, they are built on the notion that there is
no single perfect model for social security; on the contrary, it is for each society
to develop the best means of guaranteeing the protection required. Accordingly,
they offer a range of options and flexible routes for their application, all directed
at ensuring an overall level of protection which best responds to each country’s
needs. This can be achieved through a combination of contributory and non-
8

--- Page 15 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
contributory benefits, general and occupational schemes, compulsory and
voluntary insurance, and different methods for the administration of benefits.
Furthermore, the ILO standards establish qualitative and quantitative
benchmarks which together determine the minimum standards of social security
protection to be provided by social security schemes when life risks or
circumstances occur, with regard to:
 definition of the contingency (what risk or life circumstance must be
covered?)
 persons protected (who must be covered?)
 type and level of benefits (what should be provided?)
 entitlement conditions, including qualifying period (what should a person
do to get the right to a benefit?)
 duration of benefit and waiting period (how long must the benefit be
paid/provided for?)
In addition, they set out common rules of collective organization, financing and
management of social security, as well as principles for the good governance of
national systems. These include:
 the general responsibility of the State for the due provision of benefits and
proper administration of social security systems;
 solidarity, collective financing and risk-pooling;
 participatory management of social security schemes;
 guarantee of defined benefits;
 adjustment of pensions in payment to maintain the purchasing power of
beneficiaries; and
 the right to complain and appeal.
In this way, the ILO standards provide concrete guidance for countries to move
progressively towards the realization of the right to social security and the
effective implementation of a rights-based approach to social protection. As
mentioned earlier, they have served as key references in the interpretation of
the right to social security under human rights international instruments by UN
treaty bodies and are frequently used by these bodies to measure States’
progress and compliance with their obligations in this respect.
A worldwide reference framework to guide the development of social
security systems
Over the years, ILO social security standards, and in particular Convention
No. 102, have had and continue to have substantial influence on the
development of social security and the extension of coverage in various regions
of the world. As noted by ILO constituents, more than 50 years after its adoption,
Convention No. 102 continues to serve as a benchmark and reference in the
gradual development of comprehensive social security coverage at the national
level. In fact, “many developing countries, inspired by the Convention, have
9

--- Page 16 ---
Building social protection systems
embarked upon the road to social security”. 18 Moreover, as noted by the ILC,
“several member States currently implementing successful and innovative
social security extension policies have recently ratified Convention No. 102 and
others have indicated their intention to do so”. 19
The influence of ILO social security standards is also felt in regional and
subregional treaties. For instance, in Europe, Convention No. 102 has provided
the blueprint for the European Code of Social Security (1964) and is established
as the standard to meet by the European Social Charter (1961). In Africa, it has
notably served for the elaboration of the Code on Social Security of the Southern
African Development Community (2008). In the Americas, it is reflected in the
CARICOM Agreement on Social Security (1996), and the Additional Protocol to
the American Convention on Human Rights in the Area of Economic, Social and
Cultural Rights (Protocol of San Salvador, 1988).
Main ILO social security standards: Key features
The most prominent standards, Convention No. 102 and Recommendation
No. 202), are complemented by other Conventions and Recommendations that
set higher standards in respect of the different social security branches, or spell
out the social security rights of migrant workers. The social security rights of
other categories of workers such as fishers, domestic workers and maritime
labourers are further specified in other instruments applying to these specific
sectors.
Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952 (No. 102)
The long-standing Convention No. 102 20 is a global reference in social security.
As a leading standard of the ILO in this field, it is deemed to embody an
internationally accepted definition of the very principle of social security. It
regroups nine social security contingencies (medical care, sickness,
unemployment, old age, employment injury, family responsibilities, maternity,
invalidity and survivorship) and sets out in a single, comprehensive and legally
binding instrument the minimum parameters that States should commit to
18 ILO: Social security and the rule of law, Report III (1B), International Labour Conference, 100th Session,
Geneva, 2011, para. 81.
19 ILO: Social protection floors for social justice and a fair globalization, Report IV (1), International Labour
Conference, 101st Session, Geneva, 2012, para. 36.
20 Convention No. 102 was the subject of a General Survey of the Committee of Experts on the Application
of Conventions and Recommendations (CEACR) in the context of the 2008 Declaration on Social Justice
for a Fair Globalization in 2011. A General Survey is an in-depth report based on the national law and
practice of ILO member States on certain chosen Conventions and/or Recommendations which examines
the impact of the standards and identifies means of overcoming any difficulties in their application. Spe-
cifically, the General Survey “Social Security and the rule of Law” looks at the challenges faced by social
security and elaborates on the dimensions of extension, enforcement and due process as a means to
strengthen legality in social security and concludes by exploring ways to make up the deficit in social se-
curity regulation. ILO: Social security and the rule of law, Report III (1B), International Labour Conference,
100th Session, Geneva, 2011:
(https://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---ed_norm/---relconf/documents/meetingdocu-
ment/wcms_152602.pdf)
10

--- Page 17 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
meeting for each contingency. It further places them under principles for good
and sustainable governance. These standards are to be applied in law and in
practice for the provision of adequate benefits to a substantial part of the
population.
Convention No. 102 contains a number of clauses which allow member States
a certain degree of flexibility in reaching its objectives. This is done first by
allowing ratifying States to accept as a minimum three out of the nine branches
of social security, with at least one of those three branches covering a long-term
contingency or unemployment and with a view to extending coverage to other
contingencies at a further stage (Article 2). In addition, the scope of personal
coverage under Convention No. 102 provides alternatives that take into account
differences in the employment structure and in the socio-economic situation of
member States, as well as between the different categories of residents within
a State. Hence, for each branch accepted the Convention gives member States
the possibility to cover only a certain proportion of their population. Furthermore,
in the implementation of social security branches it allows member States
whose economy and medical facilities are insufficiently developed to make use
of temporary exceptions relating, for example, to the proportion of people
covered (Article 3). The Convention also provides for flexibility as to the type of
schemes member States may establish for implementation of the Convention
and to reach its objectives. Such objectives can be reached through non-
contributory (universal or means-tested), or contributory social insurance
schemes (with earnings-related or flat-rate components or both), or a
combination of both.
Social Protection Floors Recommendation, 2012 (No. 202)
As for Recommendation No. 202, 21 it provides guidance on closing social
security gaps and achieving universal coverage through the establishment and
maintenance of comprehensive social security systems. It calls upon States to
achieve universal coverage with at least minimum levels of protection through
the implementation of social protection floors as a matter of priority; and to
progressively ensure higher levels of protection. National social protection floors
should comprise basic social security guarantees that ensure, as a minimum,
effective access to essential health care and basic income security at a level
that allows people to live in dignity throughout the life cycle. These should
include at least:
 access to essential health care, including maternity care;
21 Worldwide state of the implementation of Recommendation No. 202 was the subject of a General Sur-
vey of the CEACR. The General Survey highlights good practices and progress accomplished by countries
in giving effect to the Recommendation, analyses the difficulties indicated by governments and social
partners as impeding or delaying its implementation, identifies means of overcoming these obstacles and
formulates practical recommendations for a better application of the Recommendation by ILO member
States. In so doing, it provides relevant guidance for all stakeholders to enhance social protection, achieve
universal social protection and accelerating progress towards the realization of the SDGs by 2030. General
Survey concerning the Social Protection Floors Recommendation, 2012 (No. 202): Universal social protec-
tion for human dignity, social justice and sustainable development
(https://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---ed_norm/---relconf/documents/meetingdocu-
ment/wcms_673680.pdf)
11

--- Page 18 ---
Building social protection systems
 basic income security for children;
 basic income security for persons of working age who are unable to earn
sufficient income, in particular in cases of sickness, unemployment,
maternity and disability; and
 basic income security for older persons.
Complementing existing standards, Recommendation No. 202 sets forth an
integrated and coherent approach to social protection across the life cycle,
underscores the principle of universality of protection through nationally-defined
social protection floors, and embodies a commitment to their progressive
realization in terms of benefits and people covered. It thereby aims at ensuring
that all members of society enjoy at least a basic level of social security
throughout their lives, ensuring their health and dignity. Poverty, vulnerability
and social exclusion are established as priority areas of attention, with the clear
objective of reducing poverty as soon as possible. The Recommendation further
envisages a systemic approach to social security that should be reflected in
national social security extension strategies seeking to close gaps in basic
protection and raise levels of protection, with explicit linkages to more advanced
ILO social security standards and notably Convention No. 102, which should
serve as a reference for such purposes. The Recommendation calls for systems
that are country-led, are aligned to national circumstances, are reviewed in the
light of population needs, and include the participation of all stakeholders. In an
innovative way, it contains guidance on monitoring to help countries assess their
progress in moving towards enhanced protection and improving the
performance of national social security systems towards the objective of
building comprehensive systems covering the entire population throughout the
life cycle by way of an adequate set of benefits and services.
Other social security standards and provisions include the following: 22
 The Equality of Treatment (Social Security) Convention, 1962
(No. 118), addresses the issue of the social security of migrant workers in
a global manner. It provides that, for each social security branch accepted
under the Convention, a ratifying State undertakes to grant equality of
treatment to nationals of other ratifying States (and their dependants) with
its own nationals (including refugees and stateless persons, if specifically
accepted) within its territory (principle of reciprocity). Convention No. 118
further lays down the principle of the provision of benefits abroad and the
need to endeavour to participate in schemes for the maintenance of
acquired rights, and rights in the course of acquisition under the legislation
of the nationals of the States for which the Convention is also in force.
 The Maintenance of Social Security Rights Convention, 1982
(No. 157), and its accompanying Recommendation, 1983 (No. 167),
specifically address the issue of the maintenance of social security rights
of migrant workers and complement Convention No. 118, focusing on
equality of treatment and exportability. Unlike the latter, however,
Convention No. 157 applies to all branches regardless of the type of
scheme: general and special, contributory and non-contributory, as well
22 For a more detailed overview of main requirements in ILO social security standards see the tables in
Annex II.
12

--- Page 19 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
as schemes consisting of obligations imposed on employers by legislation.
The objective of Convention No. 157 is to promote a flexible and broad
form of coordination between national security schemes, in particular
through the conclusion of bilateral or multilateral social security
agreements, establishing a system based on the principle of the
maintenance of acquired rights and rights in the course of acquisition.
Recommendation No. 167 proposes model provisions for the conclusion
of bilateral or multilateral social security agreements regarding all
contingencies, and provides rules on maintaining social security rights and
exporting benefits, as well as a model agreement for the coordination of
bilateral or multilateral social security instruments.
 The Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964 (No. 121),
addresses protection in case of a morbid condition, incapacity for work,
invalidity or a loss of faculty due to an industrial accident or a prescribed
occupational disease, and the loss of support as a result of the death of
the breadwinner following employment injury. Defining the notion of
“industrial accident”, including the conditions under which this notion
applies to commuting accidents, is the responsibility of ratifying States.
Convention No. 121 indicates the cases in which accidents should be
considered by national legislation as industrial accidents and under which
conditions the occupational origin of the disease should be presumed. The
national list of employment-related diseases must comprise at least the
diseases enumerated in Schedule I to the Convention. Convention
No. 121 envisages that all employees, including apprentices in the public
and private sectors, and in cooperatives, are to be protected. The
Convention further lays down three types of benefits: medical care, cash
benefits in the event of incapacity for work and loss of earning capacity
(invalidity), and cash benefits in the event of the death of the breadwinner.
Its accompanying Recommendation No. 121 essentially recommends
the extension of the scope of persons protected in case of employment
injury, and higher levels of cash benefits.
 The Invalidity, Old-Age and Survivors’ Benefits Convention, 1967
(No. 128), regroups all three long-term benefits (i.e. invalidity, old-age and
survivors’ benefits) branches into one instrument and extends coverage
to all employees, including apprentices, or not less than 75 per cent of the
whole economically active population, or all residents whose means
during the contingency do not exceed certain limits. It further sets the
periodical payment rate for invalidity benefit to at least 50 per cent of the
reference wage and envisages the adoption of measures for rehabilitation
services. In the case of old-age and survivors’ benefit, the minimum
amount should correspond to at least 45 per cent of the reference wage.
Its accompanying Recommendation No. 131 broadens the definition of
the contingencies that should be covered under national schemes and
recommends that higher benefits be paid, upon the fulfilment of less
stringent qualifying conditions.
 The Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, 1969 (No. 130),
covers both medical care benefits and cash sickness benefit, reflecting the
trend to establish comprehensive health insurance systems. All
employees, including apprentices, or at least 75 per cent of the
13

--- Page 20 ---
Building social protection systems
economically active population, or all residents whose means do not
exceed certain limits should be covered for both contingencies. In relation
to medical care, wives and children of employees should also covered.
Convention No. 130 further extends the medical care required under
Convention No. 102 to dental care and medical rehabilitation, including
the supply, maintenance and renewal of prosthetic and orthopaedic
appliances. It also provides for entitlement to benefit throughout the
contingency and restricts the possibility of limiting the duration of sickness
benefits; a limitation corresponding to 26 weeks is authorized only where
the beneficiary ceases to belong to the categories of persons protected
and if the sickness started while the beneficiary still belonged to such
categories. Its accompanying Recommendation No. 134 extends the
sickness contingency, the scope of personal coverage and the type of
medical benefits that should be provided. It also recommends the
provision of medical benefits without a qualifying period and that of
sickness benefit throughout the whole duration of the contingency.
 The main aim of the Employment Promotion and Protection Against
Unemployment Convention, 1988 (No. 168), is twofold: the protection
of unemployed persons through the provision of benefits in the form of
periodical payments, and the promotion of employment. It therefore
recognizes the value of linking social security to broader social and
economic policies directed at one priority goal: the promotion of full,
productive and freely chosen employment. In addition to providing benefits
in case of unemployment at a minimum replacement rate of 50 per cent of
the reference wage, ratifying States are therefore also called upon to
adopt appropriate steps to coordinate their system of protection against
unemployment and their employment policy. The system of protection
against unemployment should therefore be such as to encourage
employers in offering, and workers in seeking, productive employment.
Persons protected must comprise prescribed classes of employees,
constituting not less than 85 per cent of all employees, including public
employees and apprentices, or all residents whose resources during the
contingencies do not exceed prescribed limits. Its accompanying
Recommendation No. 176 provides guidance on how to assess the
suitability of employment for those seeking it, taking into account the age
of unemployed persons, their length of service in their former occupation,
their acquired experience, the length of their unemployment and the state
of the labour market. It further recommends the extension of the scope of
the contingency covered, that of the personal coverage, and of the benefit
duration.
 Under the Maternity Protection Convention, 2000 (No. 183), all
employed women, including those in atypical forms of dependent work,
should be covered for pregnancy, childbirth and their consequences. In
particular, persons protected should be entitled to maternity benefits for a
minimum period of 14 weeks (including six weeks of compulsory leave
after childbirth) at not less than two-thirds of their previous earnings. The
medical benefits provided to protected persons must include prenatal,
childbirth and post-natal care. Convention No. 183 also lays down the right
to work breaks for breastfeeding, as well as provisions relating to health
14

--- Page 21 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
protection, employment protection and non-discrimination. Its
accompanying Recommendation No. 191 provides for a higher benefit
and a longer duration of paid maternity leave.
 The Income Security Recommendation, 1944 (No. 67), and the
Medical Care Recommendation, 1944 (No. 69), are at the origin of the
development of social security in ILO instruments and can be considered
the blueprint for comprehensive social security systems. Together, they
establish a comprehensive system of income security and medical care
protection for each of the nine classical branches of social security in
addition to general neediness (called “general want” in 1944), with the
objective of relieving want and preventing destitution. Recommendations
Nos. 67 and 69 are grounded on the guiding principle of universal
coverage, following which income security and medical care services
should be extended to the population as a whole through a combination
of social insurance and social assistance.
Completing this framework, the ILO has adopted a number of Conventions and
Recommendations addressing particular matters encountered in the world of
work and making provision for the protection of specific categories of workers
or sectors, including social security provisions. 23 For example, the Transition
from the Informal to the Formal Economy Recommendation, 2015
(No. 204), recognizes the lack of protection of workers in the informal economy,
and provides guidance for improving their protection and facilitating transitions
to the formal economy. It also includes guidance on the extension of social
security coverage to workers in the informal economy, including through social
protection floors, and on the role of such extension of coverage in facilitating
transitions to the formal economy. Similarly, closing the gaps in social protection
coverage is one of the areas that the Domestic Workers Convention, 2011
(No. 189), and its accompanying Recommendation No. 201, addresses,
calling on members to take appropriate measures so as, to ensure that domestic
workers enjoy conditions that are not less favourable than those applicable to
workers generally. The Employment and Decent Work for Peace and
Resilience Recommendation, 2017 (No. 205), recognizes the vital role that
social protection plays in preventing crises, enabling recovery and building
resilience and provides guidance for countries in this regard.
The importance of ratifying ILO social security Conventions
As mentioned earlier, Conventions are open to ratification, a formal procedure
through which a State, through its Government, accepts to be bound by the
Convention provisions. The act of ratification, signed by the Government and
deposited with the Director-General of the ILO, is in itself a declaration to such
effect. Ratifying a Convention thus creates a legal obligation for the State to
apply its provisions in law and in practice, and to report at regular intervals to
the ILO supervisory bodies on how this is done.
There are currently eight up-to-date Conventions open for ratification (listed in
box 1). Some of these, such as Conventions Nos. 102 and 128, contain flexibility
23 See Annex V.
15

--- Page 22 ---
Building social protection systems
clauses which allow a State to ratify by accepting only parts of it. These parts
should be specified in the act of ratification. Other Conventions, such as
No. 183, require particular information to be specified in the act of ratification.
These elements are crucial for the ratification to become effective and
registered. The ratification takes effect one year following the date of registration
of the act of ratification with the ILO.
In recent years, the ratification of Convention No. 102 has proven of particular
importance for countries undergoing political change or comprehensive labour
market reforms, or experiencing crises, by providing legal incentives to maintain
some of the most crucial guarantees of the system. 24 In others, ratification has
served as a catalyst for improvement of the social security system by guiding
parametric adjustments, the extension of coverage and, in some cases, a
systemic reform. The most recent ratifications include Argentina (2016), Benin
(2019), Chad (2015), Cabo Verde (2019), Dominican Republic (2016), Jordan
(2014), Morocco (2019), Russian Federation (2019), St. Vincent and the
Grenadines (2015) and Ukraine (2016). 25
The advantages for States in ratifying ILO social security Conventions can be
summarized as follows:
 A path to decent work and poverty reduction and other global goals.
Once ratified and applied in law and practice, ILO social security
Conventions can contribute to fostering decent working conditions and
reducing poverty by providing for guaranteed minimum levels of benefits.
In particular, the ratification and implementation of these standards also
contributes to attaining the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,
namely sustainable development goals target 1.3 on building social
protection systems and measures for all, including floors, with a view to
achieving universal social protection. It is also instrumental in achieving
other SDGs related to the eradication of poverty, good health and well-
being (namely through universal health coverage), gender equality,
decent work and in reducing inequalities.
 A concrete and detailed guiding framework for operationalizing
constitutional rights and promoting human rights meeting
international and regional obligations. Ratifying and applying ILO
social security Conventions in law and in practice demonstrates a
commitment to realizing the human right to social security, as set out in
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1948, the International
Covenant of Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, 1966, and other
human rights instruments. In addition, ratification can provide the
opportunity for many countries to further develop their social security
system and to extend legal and effective coverage, thereby giving effect
to constitutional provisions which lay down the right to social security or
social protection.
 An international legal framework for fair and stable globalization and
for ensuring a level playing field. Experience shows that ILO social
24 For a more detailed account of the role of the expansion of social protection coverage in crisis recovery,
see ILO: World Social Protection Report 2014/15, op. cit.
25 Refer to table with ratifications in Annex III.
16

--- Page 23 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
security Conventions, once ratified, can serve as a means of preventing
the levelling down of national social security systems. The minimum
requirements and benchmarks they set out contribute to the creation of an
equitable global level playing field for social protection. By ratifying these
standards, a country thus contributes to preventing the downgrading of the
application of standards and unfair competition by a “race to the bottom”
leading to lower protection, below the minimum levels set out in these
Conventions.
 Tools for policy and legal action, and a road map for the
strengthening of national social protection systems. ILO social
security standards envisage the progressive development of
comprehensive and integrated national social protection systems that
seek universal social protection based on the principles of social solidarity
and collective financing. This normative framework can thus serve as a
road map for the development and reform of social security by providing
guidelines and targets for progressively building an integrated, wide-
ranging and sustainable system that leaves no one behind. By defining
the fundamental elements for social protection systems, Convention No.
102 and Recommendation No. 202, in particular, provide guidance for the
establishment, maintenance and reform of social protection systems,
ensuring that they can function effectively, equitably and sustainably
based on clearly defined rights and obligations. Advanced standards
provide guidance for progressively ensuring higher levels of protection.
 A guarantee that minimum levels of protection will be maintained in
times of crisis. The social impact of financial and economic crises on
workers and their families can be mitigated by social security through its
automatic income replacement functions and measures. By ratifying ILO
social security Conventions, a country undertakes to implement minimum
social security standards through a legal framework; this requires the
maintenance at all times of the minimum standards they set out.
Conventions, once ratified, can therefore act as powerful tools for the
preservation of social security guarantees and entitlements at the national
level – and thereby, the preservation of decent standards of living and
health. Ratification can therefore prevent countries from backsliding, that
is, from losing what has already been achieved, and can mitigate the long-
term social consequences of crises.
 Tools for the improvement of social security governance,
administration and services and increased confidence in the system.
ILO social security Conventions lay down basic principles for the sound
governance and proper administration of social security (e.g.
governmental responsibility in securing the necessary financing for the
benefits, at least at the levels stipulated by the Convention; periodical
actuarial review of contributions and benefit schedule; and tripartite
representation in administration). These principles, when taking a legal
form, provide a solid basis for the establishment or reform of social
security institutions, and increase these institutions’ accountability. This,
in turn, increases public acceptance and perception of their legitimacy and
boosts “contribution compliance” and morale. A commitment to ILO social
security Conventions and to these principles, expressed by the act of
17

--- Page 24 ---
Building social protection systems
ratification, translates into a commitment to ensure the provision of regular
and sustainable benefits and the sound governance of institutions. This
contributes greatly to enhancing insured persons’ confidence in the social
security system, in the national social security administration and in the
political system of a country in general. In times of reform, ratification can
give a particular strong signal to society and social partners of the State’s
commitment to comply with minimum social security standards,
irrespective of the type of scheme chosen. A given Convention can thus
facilitate the social dialogue process by becoming an integral component
(in terms of the standards, benchmarks and principles) of social security
reform.
ILO Social Security Standards Toolkit:
Learn, Ratify and Apply
A Toolkit was developed with the aim of raising awareness about ILO so-
cial security standards and promoting their ratification. By bringing together
information and resources on these standards, the toolkit further serves to
increase their impact and application in national contexts. The toolkit pro-
vides very practical and useful insights as to the ratification procedure, model
instruments of ratification, as well as interactive information on the rele-
vance and key provisions of these standards.
Consult the toolkit: https://www.social-protection.org/gimi/Standards.action?lang=EN
Concluding remarks
The international social security legal framework described above contains a
wealth of references for countries that wish to move forward with the
implementation of the right to social security and the establishment of
comprehensive, sustainable and adequate social security systems. From
general orientation to technical requirements, the provisions contained in the
instruments that constitute this framework, and their interpretation by the
respective supervisory bodies, can play a fundamental role in guiding the
development of sound legal frameworks enabling all people to enjoy their rights.
By securing persons’ enjoyment of their social security rights, States will also
promote human development, political stability and inclusive growth, and in this
way reduce and prevent poverty, redress inequalities and encourage the fair
redistribution of economic wealth in line with the Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs). 26 In fact, social protection occupies a central role in the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development, cutting across several SDGs and
emphasizing the multidimensional nature of social protection policies, which
26 ILO: World Social Protection Report 2017–19: Universal social protection to achieve the Sustainable
Development Goals (Geneva, 2017); see also M. Sepulveda, C. Nyst: The Human Rights Approach to Social
Protection. Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Finland, 2012.
18

--- Page 25 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
have an important “bridging function” (see Annex I). 27 Most prominently, SDG 1
recognizes the critical contribution of social protection systems, including social
protection floors, in reducing and preventing poverty, in a specific target (1.3):
“Implement nationally appropriate social protection systems and measures for
all, including floors, and by 2030 achieve substantial coverage of the poor and
vulnerable”. This provides a bridge to the other goals, which explicitly or
implicitly relate to social protection, including goals on, health (particularly target
3.8), gender equality (particularly target 5.4), decent work and economic growth
(particularly target 8.5), reduced inequalities (particularly target 10.4), and
peace, justice and strong institutions (particularly targets 16.3 and 16.6). This is
why the strengthening of social protection systems plays such an essential role
in achieving the SDGs. It is hoped that this compendium, by facilitating access
to the fundamental tools it contains, will contribute to accelerate progress
towards the endeavour of implementing comprehensive and adequate social
protection systems, based on worldwide recognized principles and giving effect
to the right of everyone to social security.
27 M. Kaltenborn: “Global social protection. New impetus from the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Develop-
ment”, in Global Governance Spotlight (2015), No. 7.
19

--- Page 26 --- [pas de texte extractible]

--- Page 27 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
ILO Conventions
C102 – Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
Preamble
Article 2
The General Conference of the International
Each Member for which this Convention is in
Labour Organisation,
force:
Having been convened at Geneva by the
(a) shall comply with:
Governing Body of the International Labour
(i) Part I;
Office, and having met in its Thirty-fifth
Session on 4 June 1952, and (ii) at least three of Parts II, III, IV, V, VI,
VII, VIII, IX and X, including at least
Having decided upon the adoption of certain
one of Parts IV, V, VI, IX and X;
proposals with regard to minimum standards of
social security, which are included in the fifth (iii) the relevant provisions of Parts XI, XII
item on the agenda of the session, and and XIII; and
Having determined that these proposals shall (iv) Part XIV; and
take the form of an international Convention, (b) shall specify in its ratification in respect of
adopts this twenty-eighth day of June of the which of Parts II to X it accepts the
year one thousand nine hundred and fifty-two obligations of the Convention.
the following Convention, which may be cited
Article 3
as the Social Security (Minimum Standards)
Convention, 1952: 1. A Member whose economy and medical
facilities are insufficiently developed may, if
PART I. GENERAL PROVISIONS and for so long as the competent authority
Article 1 considers necessary, avail itself, by a
declaration appended to its ratification, of the
1. In this Convention:
temporary exceptions provided for in the
(a) the term prescribed means determined
following Articles: 9 (d) ; 12 (2); 15 (d); 18 (2);
by or in virtue of national laws or
21 (c); 27 (d) ; 33 (b); 34 (3); 41 (d); 48 (c); 55
regulations;
(d); and 61 (d).
(b) the term residence means ordinary
2. Each Member which has made a
residence in the territory of the Member and
declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article
the term resident means a person ordinarily
shall include in the annual report upon the
resident in the territory of the Member;
application of this Convention submitted under
(c) the term wife means a wife who is Article 22 of the Constitution of the International
maintained by her husband; Labour Organisation a statement, in respect of
(d) the term widow means a woman who was each exception of which it avails itself:
maintained by her husband at the time of (a) that its reason for doing so subsists; or
his death;
(b) that it renounces its right to avail itself of
(e) the term child means a child under school- the exception in question as from a stated
leaving age or under 15 years of age, as date.
may be prescribed;
Article 4
(f) the term qualifying period means a period
of contribution, or a period of employment, 1. Each Member which has ratified this
or a period of residence, or any combination Convention may subsequently notify the
thereof, as may be prescribed. Director-General of the International Labour
Office that it accepts the obligations of the
2. In Articles 10, 34 and 49 the term benefit
Convention in respect of one or more of Parts
means either direct benefit in the form of care or
II to X not already specified in its ratification.
indirect benefit consisting of a reimbursement of
the expenses borne by the person concerned. 2. The undertakings referred to in
paragraph 1 of this Article shall be deemed to
be an integral part of the ratification and to
have the force of ratification as from the date
of notification.
21

--- Page 28 ---
Building social protection systems
Article 5 50 per cent. of all employees in industrial
Where, for the purpose of compliance with any workplaces employing 20 persons or
of the Parts II to X of this Convention which are more, and also their wives and children.
to be covered by its ratification, a Member is
Article 10
required to protect prescribed classes of
1. The benefit shall include at least:
persons constituting not less than a specified
percentage of employees or residents, the (a) in case of a morbid condition:
Member shall satisfy itself, before undertaking (i) general practitioner care, including
to comply with any such Part, that the relevant domiciliary visiting;
percentage is attained. (ii) specialist care at hospitals for in-
patients and out-patients, and such
Article 6
specialist care as may be available
For the purpose of compliance with Parts II, III,
outside hospitals;
IV, V, VIII (in so far as it relates to medical
(iii) the essential pharmaceutical supplies
care), IX or X of this Convention, a Member
as prescribed by medical or other
may take account of protection effected by
qualified practitioners; and
means of insurance which, although not made
compulsory by national laws or regulations for (iv) hospitalisation where necessary; and
the persons to be protected: (b) in case of pregnancy and confinement and
(a) is supervised by the public authorities or their consequences:
administered, in accordance with (i) pre-natal, confinement and post-natal
prescribed standards, by joint operation of care either by medical practitioners or
employers and workers; by qualified midwives; and
(b) covers a substantial part of the persons (ii) hospitalisation where necessary.
whose earnings do not exceed those of the 2. The beneficiary or his breadwinner may be
skilled manual male employee; and required to share in the cost of the medical
(c) complies, in conjunction with other forms care the beneficiary receives in respect of a
of protection, where appropriate, with the morbid condition; the rules concerning such
relevant provisions of the Convention. cost-sharing shall be so designed as to avoid
hardship.
PART II. MEDICAL CARE
3. The benefit provided in accordance with
Article 7
this Article shall be afforded with a view to
Each Member for which this Part of this maintaining, restoring or improving the health
Convention is in force shall secure to the of the person protected and his ability to work
persons protected the provision of benefit in and to attend to his personal needs.
respect of a condition requiring medical care of
4. The institutions or Government
a preventive or curative nature in accordance
departments administering the benefit shall, by
with the following Articles of this Part.
such means as may be deemed appropriate,
Article 8 encourage the persons protected to avail
themselves of the general health services
The contingencies covered shall include any
placed at their disposal by the public authorities
morbid condition, whatever its cause, and
or by other bodies recognised by the public
pregnancy and confinement and their
authorities.
consequences.
Article 11
Article 9
The benefit specified in Article 10 shall, in a
The persons protected shall comprise:
contingency covered, be secured at least to a
(a) prescribed classes of employees,
person protected who has completed, or
constituting not less than 50 per cent. of
whose breadwinner has completed, such
all employees, and also their wives and
qualifying period as may be considered
children; or
necessary to preclude abuse.
(b) prescribed classes of economically active
population, constituting not less than 20 Article 12
per cent. of all residents, and also their 1. The benefit specified in Article 10 shall be
wives and children; or granted throughout the contingency covered,
(c) prescribed classes of residents, constituting except that, in case of a morbid condition, its
not less than 50 per cent. of all residents; or duration may be limited to 26 weeks in each
case, but benefit shall not be suspended while
(d) where a declaration made in virtue of
a sickness benefit continues to be paid, and
Article 3 is in force, prescribed classes of
provision shall be made to enable the limit to
employees constituting not less than
22

--- Page 29 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
be extended for prescribed diseases Article 18
recognised as entailing prolonged care. 1. The benefit specified in Article 16 shall be
2. Where a declaration made in virtue of granted throughout the contingency, except
Article 3 is in force, the duration of the benefit that the benefit may be limited to 26 weeks in
may be limited to 13 weeks in each case. each case of sickness, in which event it need
not be paid for the first three days of
PART III. SICKNESS BENEFIT
suspension of earnings.
Article 13
2. Where a declaration made in virtue of
Each Member for which this Part of this Article 3. is in force, the duration of the
Convention is in force shall secure to the benefit may be limited:
persons protected the provision of sickness
(a) to such period that the total number of
benefit in accordance with the following
days for which the sickness benefit is
Articles of this Part.
granted in any year is not less than ten
Article 14 times the average number of persons
protected in that year; or
The contingency covered shall include
incapacity for work resulting from a morbid (b) to 13 weeks in each case of sickness, in
condition and involving suspension of which event it need not be paid for the first
earnings, as defined by national laws or three days of suspension of earnings.
regulations.
PART IV. UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT
Article 15 Article 19
The persons protected shall comprise: Each Member for which this Part of this
(a) prescribed classes of employees, Convention is in force shall secure to the
constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all persons protected the provision of
employees; or unemployment benefit in accordance with the
following Articles of this Part.
(b) prescribed classes of the economically
active population, constituting not less Article 20
than 20 per cent. of all residents; or
The contingency covered shall include
(c) all residents whose means during the suspension of earnings, as defined by national
contingency do not exceed limits laws or regulations, due to inability to obtain
prescribed in such a manner as to comply suitable employment in the case of a person
with the requirements of Article 67; or protected who is capable of, and available for,
(d) where a declaration made in virtue of work.
Article 3 is in force, prescribed classes of
Article 21
employees, constituting not less than
50 per cent. of all employees in industrial The persons protected shall comprise:
workplaces employing 20 persons or (a) prescribed classes of employees,
more. constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all
employees; or
Article 16
(b) all residents whose means during the
1. Where classes of employees or classes of
contingency do not exceed limits
the economically active population are
prescribed in such a manner as to comply
protected, the benefit shall be a periodical
with the requirements of Article 67; or
payment calculated in such a manner as to
(c) where a declaration made in virtue of
comply either with the requirements of Article 65
Article 3 is in force, prescribed classes of
or with the requirements of Article 66.
employees, constituting not less than
2. Where all residents whose means during
50 per cent. of all employees in industrial
the contingency do not exceed prescribed
workplaces employing 20 persons or
limits are protected, the benefit shall be a
more.
periodical payment calculated in such a
manner as to comply with the requirements of Article 22
Article 67. 1. Where classes of employees are
protected, the benefit shall be a periodical
Article 17
payment calculated in such manner as to
The benefit specified in Article 16 shall, in a
comply either with the requirements of Article
contingency covered, be secured at least to a
65 or with the requirements of Article 66.
person protected who has completed such
2. Where all residents whose means during
qualifying period as may be considered
the contingency do not exceed prescribed
necessary to preclude abuse.
limits are protected, the benefit shall be a
23

--- Page 30 ---
Building social protection systems
periodical payment calculated in such a 3. National laws or regulations may provide
manner as to comply with the requirements of that the benefit of a person otherwise entitled
Article 67. to it may be suspended if such person is
engaged in any prescribed gainful activity or
Article 23
that the benefit, if contributory, may be
The benefit specified in Article 22 shall, in a reduced where the earnings of the beneficiary
contingency covered, be secured at least to a exceed a prescribed amount and, if non-
person protected who has completed such contributory, may be reduced where the
qualifying period as may be considered earnings of the beneficiary or his other means
necessary to preclude abuse. or the two taken together exceed a prescribed
amount.
Article 24
1. The benefit specified in Article 22 shall be Article 27
granted throughout the contingency, except The persons protected shall comprise:
that its duration may be limited:
(a) prescribed classes of employees,
(a) where classes of employees are constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all
protected, to 13 weeks within a period of employees; or
12 months, or
(b) prescribed classes of the economically
(b) where all residents whose means during active population, constituting not less
the contingency do not exceed prescribed than 20 per cent. of all residents; or
limits are protected, to 26 weeks within a
(c) all residents whose means during the
period of 12 months.
contingency do not exceed limits
2. Where national laws or regulations prescribed in such a manner as to comply
provide that the duration of the benefit shall with the requirements of Article 67; or
vary with the length of the contribution period
(d) where a declaration made in virtue of
and/or the benefit previously received within a
Article 3 is in force, prescribed classes of
prescribed period, the provisions of
employees, constituting not less than
subparagraph (a) of paragraph 1 shall be
50 per cent. of all employees in industrial
deemed to be fulfilled if the average duration
workplaces employing 20 persons or
of benefit is at least 13 weeks within a period
more.
of 12 months.
3. The benefit need not be paid for a waiting Article 28
period of the first seven days in each case of The benefit shall be a periodical payment
suspension of earnings, counting days of calculated as follows:
unemployment before and after temporary (a) where classes of employees or classes of
employment lasting not more than a the economically active population are
prescribed period as part of the same case of protected, in such a manner as to comply
suspension of earnings. either with the requirements of Article 65
4. In the case of seasonal workers the or with the requirements of Article 66;
duration of the benefit and the waiting period (b) where all residents whose means during
may be adapted to their conditions of the contingency do not exceed prescribed
employment. limits are protected, in such a manner as
to comply with the requirements of
PART V. OLD-AGE BENEFIT
Article 67.
Article 25
Each Member for which this Part of this Article 29
Convention is in force shall secure to the 1. The benefit specified in Article 28 shall, in
persons protected the provision of old-age a contingency covered, be secured at least:
benefit in accordance with the following (a) to a person protected who has completed,
Articles of this Part. prior to the contingency, in accordance
with prescribed rules, a qualifying period
Article 26
which may be 30 years of contribution or
1. The contingency covered shall be survival
employment, or 20 years of residence; or
beyond a prescribed age.
(b) where, in principle, all economically active
2. The prescribed age shall be not more than
persons are protected, to a person
65 years or such higher age as may be fixed
protected who has completed a prescribed
by the competent authority with due regard to
qualifying period of contribution and in
the working ability of elderly persons in the
respect of whom, while he was of working
country concerned.
age, the prescribed yearly average
number of contributions has been paid.
24

--- Page 31 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
2. Where the benefit referred to in PART VI. EMPLOYMENT
paragraph 1 is conditional upon a minimum INJURY BENEFIT
period of contribution or employment, a Article 31
reduced benefit shall be secured at least:
Each Member for which this Part of this
(a) to a person protected who has completed, Convention is in force shall secure to the
prior to the contingency, in accordance persons protected the provision of
with prescribed rules, a qualifying period of employment injury benefit in accordance with
15 years of contribution or employment; or the following Articles of this Part.
(b) where, in principle, all economically active
Article 32
persons are protected, to a person
protected who has completed a prescribed The contingencies covered shall include the
qualifying period of contribution and in following where due to accident or a
respect of whom, while he was of working prescribed disease resulting from
age, half the yearly average number of employment:
contributions prescribed in accordance (a) a morbid condition;
with subparagraph (b) of paragraph 1 of (b) incapacity for work resulting from such a
this Article has been paid. condition and involving suspension of
3. The requirements of paragraph 1 of this earnings, as defined by national laws or
Article shall be deemed to be satisfied where a regulations;
benefit calculated in conformity with the (c) total loss of earning capacity or partial loss
requirements of Part XI but at a percentage of thereof in excess of a prescribed degree,
ten points lower than shown in the Schedule likely to be permanent, or corresponding
appended to that Part for the standard loss of faculty; and
beneficiary concerned is secured at least to a
(d) the loss of support suffered by the widow
person protected who has completed, in
or child as the result of the death of the
accordance with prescribed rules, ten years of
breadwinner; in the case of a widow, the
contribution or employment, or five years of
right to benefit may be made conditional
residence.
on her being presumed, in accordance
4. A proportional reduction of the percentage with national laws or regulations, to be
indicated in the Schedule appended to Part XI incapable of self-support.
may be effected where the qualifying period for
the benefit corresponding to the reduced Article 33
percentage exceeds ten years of contribution The persons protected shall comprise:
or employment but is less than 30 years of
(a) prescribed classes of employees,
contribution or employment; if such qualifying
constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all
period exceeds 15 years, a reduced benefit
employees, and, for benefit in respect of
shall be payable in conformity with
death of the breadwinner, also their wives
paragraph 2 of this Article.
and children; or
5. Where the benefit referred to in
(b) where a declaration made in virtue
paragraphs 1, 3 or 4 of this Article is conditional
of Article 3 is in force, prescribed classes
upon a minimum period of contribution or
of employees, constituting not less than 50
employment, a reduced benefit shall be payable
per cent. of all employees in industrial
under prescribed conditions to a person
workplaces employing 20 persons or
protected who, by reason only of his advanced
more, and, for benefit in respect of death
age when the provisions concerned in the
of the breadwinner, also their wives and
application of this Part come into force, has not
children.
satisfied the conditions prescribed in accordance
with paragraph 2 of this Article, unless a benefit Article 34
in conformity with the provisions of paragraphs 1, 1. In respect of a morbid condition, the
3 or 4 of this Article is secured to such person at benefit shall be medical care as specified in
an age higher than the normal age. paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article.
Article 30 2. The medical care shall comprise:
The benefits specified in Articles 28 and 29 (a) general practitioner and specialist in-
shall be granted throughout the contingency. patient care and out-patient care, including
domiciliary visiting;
(b) dental care;
(c) nursing care at home or in hospital or other
medical institutions;
25

--- Page 32 ---
Building social protection systems
(d) maintenance in hospitals, convalescent 3. The periodical payment may be
homes, sanatoria or other medical commuted for a lump sum:
institutions; (a) where the degree of incapacity is slight; or
(e) dental, pharmaceutical and other medical (b) where the competent authority is satisfied
or surgical supplies, including prosthetic that the lump sum will be properly utilised.
appliances, kept in repair, and eyeglasses;
and Article 37
(f) the care furnished by members of such The benefit specified in Articles 34 and 36
other professions as may at any time be shall, in a contingency covered, be secured at
legally recognised as allied to the medical least to a person protected who was employed
profession, under the supervision of a in the territory of the Member at the time of the
medical or dental practitioner. accident if the injury is due to accident or at the
time of contracting the disease if the injury is
3. Where a declaration made in virtue of
due to a disease and, for periodical payments
Article 3 is in force, the medical care shall
in respect of death of the breadwinner, to the
include at least:
widow and children of such person.
(a) general practitioner care, including
domiciliary visiting; Article 38
(b) specialist care at hospitals for in-patients The benefit specified in Articles 34 and 36 shall
and out-patients, and such specialist care be granted throughout the contingency, except
as may be available outside hospitals; that, in respect of incapacity for work, the
(c) the essential pharmaceutical supplies as benefit need not be paid for the first three days
prescribed by a medical or other qualified in each case of suspension of earnings.
practitioner; and
PART VII. FAMILY BENEFIT
(d) hospitalisation where necessary.
Article 39
4. The medical care provided in accordance
Each Member for which this Part of this
with the preceding paragraphs shall be
Convention is in force shall secure to the
afforded with a view to maintaining, restoring
persons protected the provision of family
or improving the health of the person protected
benefit in accordance with the following
and his ability to work and to attend to his
Articles of this Part.
personal needs.
Article 40
Article 35
The contingency covered shall be
1. The institutions or Government
responsibility for the maintenance of children
departments administering the medical care
as prescribed.
shall co-operate, wherever appropriate, with the
general vocational rehabilitation services, with a Article 41
view to the re-establishment of handicapped
The persons protected shall comprise:
persons in suitable work.
(a) prescribed classes of employees,
2. National laws or regulations may authorise
constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all
such institutions or departments to ensure
employees; or
provision for the vocational rehabilitation of
(b) prescribed classes of the economically
handicapped persons.
active population, constituting not less
Article 36 than 20 per cent. of all residents; or
1. In respect of incapacity for work, total loss (c) all residents whose means during the
of earning capacity likely to be permanent or contingency do not exceed prescribed
corresponding loss of faculty, or the death of the limits; or
breadwinner, the benefit shall be a periodical (d) where a declaration made in virtue of
payment calculated in such a manner as to Article 3 is in force, prescribed classes of
comply either with the requirements of Article 65 employees, constituting not less than
or with the requirements of Article 66. 50 per cent. of all employees in industrial
2. In case of partial loss of earning capacity workplaces employing 20 persons or
likely to be permanent, or corresponding loss more.
of faculty, the benefit, where payable, shall be
Article 42
a periodical payment representing a suitable
proportion of that specified for total loss of The benefit shall be:
earning capacity or corresponding loss of (a) a periodical payment granted to any
faculty. person protected having completed the
prescribed qualifying period; or
26

--- Page 33 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
(b) the provision to or in respect of children, of (c) where a declaration made in virtue of
food, clothing, housing, holidays or Article 3 is in force, all women in
domestic help; or prescribed classes of employees, which
(c) a combination of (a) and (b). classes constitute not less than 50 per
cent. of all employees in industrial
Article 43 workplaces employing 20 persons or
The benefit specified in Article 42 shall be more, and, for maternity medical benefit,
secured at least to a person protected who, also the wives of men in these classes.
within a prescribed period, has completed a
Article 49
qualifying period which may be three months
of contribution or employment, or one year of 1. In respect of pregnancy and confinement
residence, as may be prescribed. and their consequences, the maternity medical
benefit shall be medical care as specified in
Article 44 paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article.
The total value of the benefits granted in 2. The medical care shall include at least:
accordance with Article 42 to the persons
(a) pre-natal, confinement and post-natal care
protected shall be such as to represent:
either by medical practitioners or by
(a) 3 per cent. of the wage of an ordinary adult qualified midwives; and
male labourer, as determined in
(b) hospitalisation where necessary.
accordance with the rules laid down in
3. The medical care specified in paragraph 2
Article 66, multiplied by the total number of
of this Article shall be afforded with a view to
children of persons protected; or
maintaining, restoring or improving the health
(b) 1.5 per cent. of the said wage, multiplied
of the woman protected and her ability to work
by the total number of children of all
and to attend to her personal needs.
residents.
4. The institutions or Government
Article 45 departments administering the maternity
Where the benefit consists of a periodical medical benefit shall, by such means as may be
payment, it shall be granted throughout the deemed appropriate, encourage the women
contingency. protected to avail themselves of the general
health services placed at their disposal by the
PART VIII. MATERNITY BENEFIT public authorities or by other bodies recognised
Article 46 by the public authorities.
Each Member for which this Part of this Article 50
Convention is in force shall secure to the
In respect of suspension of earnings resulting
persons protected the provision of maternity
from pregnancy and from confinement and
benefit in accordance with the following
their consequences, the benefit shall be a
Articles of this Part.
periodical payment calculated in such a
Article 47 manner as to comply either with the
requirements of Article 65 or with the
The contingencies covered shall include
requirements of Article 66. The amount of the
pregnancy and confinement and their
periodical payment may vary in the course of
consequences, and suspension of earnings,
the contingency, subject to the average rate
as defined by national laws or regulations,
thereof complying with these requirements.
resulting therefrom.
Article 51
Article 48
The benefit specified in Articles 49 and 50
The persons protected shall comprise:
shall, in a contingency covered, be secured at
(a) all women in prescribed classes of
least to a woman in the classes protected who
employees, which classes constitute not
has completed such qualifying period as may
less than 50 per cent. of all employees
be considered necessary to preclude abuse,
and, for maternity medical benefit, also the
and the benefit specified in Article 49 shall also
wives of men in these classes; or
be secured to the wife of a man in the classes
(b) all women in prescribed classes of the protected where the latter has completed such
economically active population, which qualifying period.
classes constitute not less than 20 per
cent. of all residents, and, for maternity Article 52
medical benefit, also the wives of men in The benefit specified in Articles 49 and 50 shall
these classes; or be granted throughout the contingency, except
that the periodical payment may be limited to
12 weeks, unless a longer period of abstention
27

--- Page 34 ---
Building social protection systems
from work is required or authorised by national which may be 15 years of contribution or
laws or regulations, in which event it may not employment, or 10 years of residence; or
be limited to a period less than such longer (b) where, in principle, all economically active
period. persons are protected, to a person
protected who has completed a qualifying
PART IX. INVALIDITY BENEFIT
period of three years of contribution and in
Article 53
respect of whom, while he was of working
Each Member for which this Part of this age, the prescribed yearly average number
Convention is in force shall secure to the of contributions has been paid.
persons protected the provision of invalidity
2. Where the benefit referred to in
benefit in accordance with the following
paragraph 1 is conditional upon a minimum
Articles of this Part.
period of contribution or employment, a
Article 54 reduced benefit shall be secured at least:
The contingency covered shall include inability (a) to a person protected who has completed,
to engage in any gainful activity, to an extent prior to the contingency, in accordance
prescribed, which inability is likely to be with prescribed rules, a qualifying period of
permanent or persists after the exhaustion of five years of contribution or employment;
sickness benefit. or
(b) where, in principle, all economically active
Article 55 persons are protected, to a person
The persons protected shall comprise: protected who has completed a qualifying
(a) prescribed classes of employees, period of three years of contribution and in
constituting not less than 50 per cent. of all respect of whom, while he was of working
employees; or age, half the yearly average number of
contributions prescribed in accordance
(b) prescribed classes of the economically
with subparagraph (b) of paragraph 1 of
active population, constituting not less
this Article has been paid.
than 20 per cent. of all residents; or
3. The requirements of paragraph 1 of this
(c) all residents whose means during the
Article shall be deemed to be satisfied where a
contingency do not exceed limits
benefit calculated in conformity with the
prescribed in such a manner as to comply
requirements of Part XI but at a percentage of
with the requirements of Article 67; or
ten points lower than shown in the Schedule
(d) where a declaration made in virtue of
appended to that Part for the standard
Article 3 is in force, prescribed classes of
beneficiary concerned is secured at least to a
employees, constituting not less than
person protected who has completed, in
50 per cent. of all employees in industrial
accordance with prescribed rules, five years of
workplaces employing 20 persons or
contribution, employment or residence.
more.
4. A proportional reduction of the percentage
Article 56 indicated in the Schedule appended to Part XI
The benefit shall be a periodical payment may be effected where the qualifying period for
calculated as follows: the pension corresponding to the reduced
percentage exceeds five years of contribution
(a) where classes of employees or classes of
or employment but is less than 15 years of
the economically active population are
contribution or employment; a reduced
protected, in such a manner as to comply
pension shall be payable in conformity with
either with the requirements of Article 65
paragraph 2 of this Article.
or with the requirements of Article 66;
(b) where all residents whose means during Article 58
the contingency do not exceed prescribed The benefit specified in Articles 56 and 57 shall
limits are protected, in such a manner as be granted throughout the contingency or until
to comply with the requirements of an old-age benefit becomes payable.
Article 67.
PART X. SURVIVORS’ BENEFIT
Article 57
Article 59
1. The benefit specified in Article 56 shall, in
a contingency covered, be secured at least: Each Member for which this Part of this
Convention is in force shall secure to the
(a) to a person protected who has completed,
persons protected the provision of survivors’
prior to the contingency, in accordance
benefit in accordance with the following
with prescribed rules, a qualifying period
Articles of this Part.
28

--- Page 35 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Article 60 Article 63
1. The contingency covered shall include the 1. The benefit specified in Article 62 shall, in
loss of support suffered by the widow or child a contingency covered, be secured at least:
as the result of the death of the breadwinner; (a) to a person protected whose breadwinner
in the case of a widow, the right to benefit may has completed, in accordance with
be made conditional on her being presumed, prescribed rules, a qualifying period which
in accordance with national laws or may be 15 years of contribution or
regulations, to be incapable of self-support. employment, or 10 years of residence; or
2. National laws or regulations may provide (b) where, in principle, the wives and children
that the benefit of a person otherwise entitled of all economically active persons are
to it may be suspended if such person is protected, to a person protected whose
engaged in any prescribed gainful activity or breadwinner has completed a qualifying
that the benefit, if contributory, may be period of three years of contribution and in
reduced where the earnings of the beneficiary respect of whose breadwinner, while he
exceed a prescribed amount, and, if non- was of working age, the prescribed yearly
contributory, may be reduced where the average number of contributions has been
earnings of the beneficiary or his other means paid.
or the two taken together exceed a prescribed
2. Where the benefit referred to in
amount.
paragraph 1 is conditional upon a minimum
Article 61 period of contribution or employment, a
reduced benefit shall be secured at least:
The persons protected shall comprise:
(a) to a person protected whose breadwinner
(a) the wives and the children of breadwinners
has completed, in accordance with
in prescribed classes of employees, which
prescribed rules, a qualifying period of five
classes constitute not less than 50 per
years of contribution or employment; or
cent. of all employees; or
(b) where, in principle, the wives and children
(b) the wives and the children of breadwinners
of all economically active persons are
in prescribed classes of the economically
protected, to a person protected whose
active population, which classes constitute
breadwinner has completed a qualifying
not less than 20 per cent. of all residents;
period of three years of contribution and in
or
respect of whose breadwinner, while he
(c) all resident widows and resident children
was of working age, half the yearly
who have lost their breadwinner and
average number of contributions
whose means during the contingency do
prescribed in accordance with
not exceed limits prescribed in such a
subparagraph (b) of paragraph 1 of this
manner as to comply with the
Article has been paid.
requirements of Article 67; or
3. The requirements of paragraph 1 of this
(d) where a declaration made in virtue of
Article shall be deemed to be satisfied where a
Article 3 is in force, the wives and the
benefit calculated in conformity with the
children of breadwinners in prescribed
requirements of Part XI but a percentage of ten
classes of employees, which classes
points lower than shown in the Schedule
constitute not less than 50 per cent. of all
appended to that Part for the standard
employees in industrial workplaces
beneficiary concerned is secured at least to a
employing 20 persons or more.
person protected whose breadwinner has
Article 62 completed, in accordance with prescribed
rules, five years of contribution, employment or
The benefit shall be a periodical payment
residence.
calculated as follows:
4. A proportional reduction of the percentage
(a) where classes of employees or classes of
indicated in the Schedule appended to Part XI
the economically active population are
may be effected where the qualifying period for
protected, in such a manner as to comply
the benefit corresponding to the reduced
either with the requirements of Article 65
percentage exceeds five years of contribution
or with the requirements of Article 66;
or employment but is less than 15 years of
(b) where all residents whose means during contribution or employment; a reduced benefit
the contingency do not exceed prescribed shall be payable in conformity with
limits are protected, in such a manner as paragraph 2 of this Article.
to comply with the requirements of
5. In order that a childless widow presumed
Article 67.
to be incapable of self-support may be entitled
29

--- Page 36 ---
Building social protection systems
to a survivor’s benefit, a minimum duration of 75 per cent. of all the persons protected,
the marriage may be required. such earnings to be determined on the
basis of annual or shorter periods as may
Article 64
be prescribed; or
The benefit specified in Articles 62 and 63 shall
(d) a person whose earnings are equal to 125
be granted throughout the contingency.
per cent. of the average earnings of all the
PART XI. STANDARDS TO BE COMPLIED persons protected.
WITH BY PERIODICAL PAYMENTS 7. The person deemed typical of skilled
Article 65 labour for the purposes of subparagraph (b) of
the preceding paragraph shall be a person
1. In the case of a periodical payment to
employed in the major group of economic
which this Article applies, the rate of the
activities with the largest number of
benefit, increased by the amount of any family
economically active male persons protected in
allowances payable during the contingency,
the contingency in question, or of the
shall be such as to attain, in respect of the
breadwinners of the persons protected, as the
contingency in question, for the standard
case may be, in the division comprising the
beneficiary indicated in the Schedule
largest number of such persons or
appended to this Part, at least the percentage
breadwinners; for this purpose, the
indicated therein of the total of the previous
international standard industrial classification
earnings of the beneficiary or his breadwinner
of all economic activities, adopted by the
and of the amount of any family allowances
Economic and Social Council of the United
payable to a person protected with the same
Nations at its Seventh Session on 27 August
family responsibilities as the standard
1948, and reproduced in the Annex to this
beneficiary.
Convention, or such classification as at any
2. The previous earnings of the beneficiary or time amended, shall be used.
his breadwinner shall be calculated according
8. Where the rate of benefit varies by region,
to prescribed rules, and, where the persons
the skilled manual male employee may be
protected or their breadwinners are arranged
determined for each region in accordance with
in classes according to their earnings, their
paragraphs 6 and 7 of this Article.
previous earnings may be calculated from the
basic earnings of the classes to which they 9. The wage of the skilled manual male
belonged. employee shall be determined on the basis of
the rates of wages for normal hours of work
3. A maximum limit may be prescribed for the
fixed by collective agreements, by or in
rate of the benefit or for the earnings taken into
pursuance of national laws or regulations,
account for the calculation of the benefit,
where applicable, or by custom, including cost-
provided that the maximum limit is fixed in
of-living allowances if any; where such rates
such a way that the provisions of paragraph 1
differ by region but paragraph 8 of this Article
of this Article are complied with where the
is not applied, the median rate shall be taken.
previous earnings of the beneficiary or his
breadwinner are equal to or lower than the 10. The rates of current periodical payments
wage of a skilled manual male employee. in respect of old age, employment injury
(except in case of incapacity for work),
4. The previous earnings of the beneficiary or
invalidity and death of breadwinner, shall be
his breadwinner, the wage of the skilled
reviewed following substantial changes in the
manual male employee, the benefit and any
general level of earnings where these result
family allowances shall be calculated on the
from substantial changes in the cost of living.
same time basis.
Article 66
5. For the other beneficiaries, the benefit
shall bear a reasonable relation to the benefit 1. In the case of a periodical payment to
for the standard beneficiary. which this Article applies, the rate of the
benefit, increased by the amount of any family
6. For the purpose of this Article, a skilled
allowances payable during the contingency,
manual male employee shall be:
shall be such as to attain, in respect of the
(a) a fitter or turner in the manufacture of contingency in question, for the standard
machinery other than electrical machinery; beneficiary indicated in the Schedule
or appended to this Part, at least the percentage
(b) a person deemed typical of skilled labour indicated therein of the total of the wage of an
selected in accordance with the provisions ordinary adult male labourer and of the amount
of the following paragraph; or of any family allowances payable to a person
(c) a person whose earnings are such as to protected with the same family responsibilities
be equal to or greater than the earnings of as the standard beneficiary.
30

--- Page 37 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
2. The wage of the ordinary adult male differ by region but paragraph 6 of this Article
labourer, the benefit and any family is not applied, the median rate shall be taken.
allowances shall be calculated on the same 8. The rates of current periodical payments
time basis. in respect of old age, employment injury
3. For the other beneficiaries, the benefit (except in case of incapacity for work),
shall bear a reasonable relation to the benefit invalidity and death of breadwinner, shall be
for the standard beneficiary. reviewed following substantial changes in the
4. For the purpose of this Article, the ordinary general level of earnings where these result
adult male labourer shall be: from substantial changes in the cost of living.
(a) a person deemed typical of unskilled Article 67
labour in the manufacture of machinery
In the case of a periodical payment to which
other than electrical machinery; or
this Article applies:
(b) a person deemed typical of unskilled
(a) the rate of the benefit shall be determined
labour selected in accordance with the
according to a prescribed scale or a scale
provisions of the following paragraph.
fixed by the competent public authority in
5. The person deemed typical of unskilled conformity with prescribed rules;
labour for the purpose of subparagraph (b) of
(b) such rate may be reduced only to the
the preceding paragraph shall be a person
extent by which the other means of the
employed in the major group of economic
family of the beneficiary exceed
activities with the largest number of
prescribed substantial amounts or
economically active male persons protected in
substantial amounts fixed by the
the contingency in question, or of the
competent public authority in conformity
breadwinners of the persons protected, as the
with prescribed rules;
case may be, in the division comprising the
(c) the total of the benefit and any other
largest number of such persons or
means, after deduction of the substantial
breadwinners; for this purpose, the
amounts referred to in subparagraph (b),
international standard industrial classification
shall be sufficient to maintain the family of
of all economic activities, adopted by the
the beneficiary in health and decency, and
Economic and Social Council of the United
shall be not less than the corresponding
Nations at its Seventh Session on 27 August
benefit calculated in accordance with the
1948, and reproduced in the Annex to this
requirements of Article 66;
Convention, or such classification as at any
time amended, shall be used. (d) the provisions of subparagraph (c) shall be
deemed to be satisfied if the total amount
6. Where the rate of benefit varies by region,
of benefits paid under the Part concerned
the ordinary adult male labourer may be
exceeds by at least 30 per cent. the total
determined for each region in accordance with
amount of benefits which would be
paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Article.
obtained by applying the provisions of
7. The wage of the ordinary adult male
Article 66 and the provisions of:
labourer shall be determined on the basis of
(i) Article 15 (b) for Part III;
the rates of wages for normal hours of work
fixed by collective agreements, by or in (ii) Article 27 (b) for Part V;
pursuance of national laws or regulations, (iii) Article 55 (b) for Part IX;
where applicable, or by custom, including cost- (iv) Article 61 (b) for Part X.
of-living allowances if any; where such rates
31

--- Page 38 ---
Building social protection systems
SCHEDULE TO PART XI. PERIODICAL PAYMENTS TO STANDARD BENEFICIARIES
Part Contingency Standard Beneficiary Percentage
III Sickness Man with wife and two children 45
IV Unemployment Man with wife and two children 45
V Old age Man with wife of pensionable age 40
VI Employment injury:
Incapacity of work Man with wife and two children 50
Invalidity Man with wife and two children 50
Survivors Widow with two children 40
VIII Maternity Woman 45
IX Invalidity Man with wife and two children 40
X Survivors Widow with two children 40
PART XII. EQUALITY OF TREATMENT during any period in respect of which he is
OF NON-NATIONAL RESIDENTS indemnified for the contingency by a third
party, subject to the part of the benefit
Article 68
which is suspended not exceeding the
1. Non-national residents shall have the
other benefit or the indemnity by a third
same rights as national residents: Provided
party;
that special rules concerning non-nationals
(d) where the person concerned has made a
and nationals born outside the territory of the
fraudulent claim;
Member may be prescribed in respect of
benefits or portions of benefits which are (e) where the contingency has been caused
payable wholly or mainly out of public funds by a criminal offence committed by the
and in respect of transitional schemes. person concerned;
2. Under contributory social security (f) where the contingency has been caused
schemes which protect employees, the by the wilful misconduct of the person
persons protected who are nationals of concerned;
another Member which has accepted the (g) in appropriate cases, where the person
obligations of the relevant Part of the concerned neglects to make use of the
Convention shall have, under that Part, the medical or rehabilitation services placed at
same rights as nationals of the Member his disposal or fails to comply with rules
concerned: Provided that the application of this prescribed for verifying the occurrence or
paragraph may be made subject to the continuance of the contingency or for the
existence of a bilateral or multilateral conduct of beneficiaries;
agreement providing for reciprocity. (h) in the case of unemployment benefit,
where the person concerned has failed to
PART XIII. COMMON PROVISIONS
make use of the employment services
Article 69
placed at his disposal;
A benefit to which a person protected would
(i) in the case of unemployment benefit,
otherwise be entitled in compliance with any of
where the person concerned has lost his
Parts II to X of this Convention may be
employment as a direct result of a
suspended to such extent as may be
stoppage of work due to a trade dispute, or
prescribed:
has left it voluntarily without just cause;
(a) as long as the person concerned is absent and
from the territory of the Member;
(j) in the case of survivors’ benefit, as long as
(b) as long as the person concerned is the widow is living with a man as his wife.
maintained at public expense, or at the
Article 70
expense of a social security institution or
1. Every claimant shall have a right of appeal
service, subject to any portion of the
in case of refusal of the benefit or complaint as
benefit in excess of the value of such
to its quality or quantity.
maintenance being granted to the
dependants of the beneficiary; 2. Where in the application of this
Convention a Government department
(c) as long as the person concerned is in
responsible to a legislature is entrusted with
receipt of another social security cash
the administration of medical care, the right of
benefit, other than a family benefit, and
32

--- Page 39 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
appeal provided for in paragraph 1 of this PART XIV. MISCELLANEOUS
Article may be replaced by a right to have a PROVISIONS
complaint concerning the refusal of medical Article 73
care or the quality of the care received
This Convention shall not apply to:
investigated by the appropriate authority.
(a) contingencies which occurred before the
3. Where a claim is settled by a special
coming into force of the relevant Part of the
tribunal established to deal with social security
Convention for the Member concerned;
questions and on which the persons protected
(b) benefits in contingencies occurring after
are represented, no right of appeal shall be
the coming into force of the relevant Part
required.
of the Convention for the Member
Article 71 concerned in so far as the rights to such
1. The cost of the benefits provided in benefits are derived from periods
compliance with this Convention and the cost preceding that date.
of the administration of such benefits shall be
Article 74
borne collectively by way of insurance
This Convention shall not be regarded as
contributions or taxation or both in a manner
revising any existing Convention.
which avoids hardship to persons of small
means and takes into account the economic Article 75
situation of the Member and of the classes of
If any Convention which may be adopted
persons protected.
subsequently by the Conference concerning
2. The total of the insurance contributions any subject or subjects dealt with in this
borne by the employees protected shall not Convention so provides, such provisions of
exceed 50 per cent. of the total of the financial this Convention as may be specified in the said
resources allocated to the protection of Convention shall cease to apply to any
employees and their wives and children. For Member having ratified the said Convention as
the purpose of ascertaining whether this from the date at which the said Convention
condition is fulfilled, all the benefits provided by comes into force for that Member.
the Member in compliance with this
(Editors’ Note: Provisions pursuant to
Convention, except family benefit and, if
Article 75 are contained in Conventions
provided by a special branch, employment
Nos. 121 (Article 29), 128 (Article 45) and 130
injury benefit, may be taken together.
(Article 36).)
3. The Member shall accept general
responsibility for the due provision of the Article 76
benefits provided in compliance with this 1. Each Member which ratifies this
Convention, and shall take all measures Convention shall include in the annual report
required for this purpose; it shall ensure, where upon the application of this Convention
appropriate, that the necessary actuarial submitted under Article 22 of the Constitution
studies and calculations concerning financial of the International Labour Organisation:
equilibrium are made periodically and, in any
(a) full information concerning the laws and
event, prior to any change in benefits, the rate
regulations by which effect is given to the
of insurance contributions, or the taxes
provisions of the Convention; and
allocated to covering the contingencies in
(b) evidence, conforming in its presentation
question.
as closely as is practicable with any
Article 72 suggestions for greater uniformity of
1. Where the administration is not entrusted presentation made by the Governing Body
to an institution regulated by the public of the International Labour Office, of
authorities or to a Government department compliance with the statistical conditions
responsible to a legislature, representatives of specified in:
the persons protected shall participate in the (i) Articles 9 (a), (b), (c) or (d); 15 (a), (b)
management, or be associated therewith in a or (d); 21 (a) or (c); 27 (a), (b) or (d);
consultative capacity, under prescribed 33 (a) or (b); 41 (a), (b) or (d); 48 (a),
conditions; national laws or regulations may (b) or (c); 55 (a (a), (b) or (d); 61 (a),
likewise decide as to the participation of (b) or (d) , as regards the number of
representatives of employers and of the public persons protected;
authorities. (ii) Articles 44, 65, 66 or 67, as regards
2. The Member shall accept general the rates of benefit;
responsibility for the proper administration of
the institutions and services concerned in the
application of the Convention.
33

--- Page 40 ---
Building social protection systems
(iii) subparagraph (a) of paragraph 2 of International Labour Organisation shall
Article 18, as regards duration of indicate:
sickness benefit; (a) the territories in respect of which the
(iv) paragraph 2 of Article 24, as regards Member concerned undertakes that the
duration of unemployment benefit; and provisions of the Convention shall be
(v) paragraph 2 of Article 71, as regards applied without modification;
the proportion of the financial (b) the territories in respect of which it
resources constituted by the undertakes that the provisions of the
insurance contributions of employees Convention or of any Parts thereof shall be
protected. applied subject to modifications, together
2. Each Member which ratifies this with details of the said modifications;
Convention shall report to the Director-General (c) the territories in respect of which the
of the International Labour Office at appropriate Convention is inapplicable and in such
intervals, as requested by the Governing Body, cases the grounds on which it is
on the position of its law and practice in regard inapplicable;
to any of Parts II to X of the Convention not (d) the territories in respect of which it
specified in its ratification or in a notification reserves its decision pending further
made subsequently in virtue of Article 4. consideration of the position.
Article 77 2. The undertakings referred to in
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph 1 of
1. This Convention does not apply to seamen
this Article shall be deemed to be an integral
or seafishermen; provision for the protection of
part of the ratification and shall have the force
seamen and seafishermen has been made by
of ratification.
the International Labour Conference in the
Social Security (Seafarers) Convention, 1946, 3. Any Member may at any time by a
and the Seafarers’ Pensions Convention, subsequent declaration cancel in whole or in
1946. part any reservation made in its original
declaration in virtue of subparagraph (b), (c) or
2. A Member may exclude seamen and
(d) of paragraph 1 of this Article.
seafishermen from the number of employees,
of the economically active population or of 4. Any Member may, at any time at which the
residents, when calculating the percentage of Convention is subject to denunciation in
employees or residents protected in accordance with the provisions of Article 82,
compliance with any of Parts II to X covered by communicate to the Director-General a
its ratification. declaration modifying in any other respect the
terms of any former declaration and stating the
PART XV. FINAL PROVISIONS present position in respect of such territories
Article 78 as it may specify.
The formal ratifications of this Convention shall
Article 81
be communicated to the Director-General of
1. Declarations communicated to the
the International Labour Office for registration.
Director-General of the International Labour
Article 79 Office in accordance with paragraph 4 or 5 of
1. This Convention shall be binding only Article 35 of the Constitution of the
upon those Members of the International International Labour Organisation shall
Labour Organisation whose ratifications have indicate whether the provisions of the
been registered with the Director-General. Convention or of the Parts thereof accepted by
the Declaration will be applied in the territory
2. It shall come into force twelve months after
concerned without modification or subject to
the date on which the ratifications of two
modifications; when the Declaration indicates
Members have been registered with the
that the provisions of the Convention or of
Director-General.
certain Parts thereof will be applied subject to
3. Thereafter, this Convention shall come modifications, it shall give details of the said
into force for any Member twelve months after modifications.
the date on which its ratifications has been
2. The Member, Members or international
registered.
authority concerned may at any time by a
Article 80 subsequent declaration renounce in whole or in
part the right to have recourse to any
1. Declarations communicated to the
modification indicated in any former declaration.
Director-General of the International Labour
Office in accordance with paragraph 2 of 3. The Member, Members or international
Article 35 of the Constitution of the authority concerned may, at any time at which
34

--- Page 41 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
this Convention is subject to denunciation in Secretary-General of the United Nations for
accordance with the provisions of Article 82, registration in accordance with Article 102 of
communicate to the Director-General a the Charter of the United Nations full
declaration modifying in any other respect the particulars of all ratifications, declarations and
terms of any former declaration and stating the acts of denunciation registered by him in
present position in respect of the application of accordance with the provisions of the
the Convention. preceding Articles.
Article 82 Article 85
1. A Member which has ratified this At such times as it may consider necessary the
Convention may, after the expiration of the ten Governing Body of the International Labour
years from the date on which the Convention Office shall present to the General Conference
first comes into force, denounce the a report on the working of this Convention and
Convention or any one or more of Parts II to X shall examine the desirability of placing on the
thereof by an act communicated to the agenda of the Conference the question of its
Director-General of the International Labour revision in whole or in part.
Office for registration. Such denunciation shall
Article 86
not take effect until one year after the date on
which it is registered. 1. Should the Conference adopt a new
Convention revising this Convention in whole
2. Each Member which has ratified this
or in part, then, unless the new Convention
Convention and which does not, within the
otherwise provides:
year following the expiration of the period of
ten years mentioned in the preceding (a) the ratification by a Member of the new
paragraph, exercise the right of denunciation revising Convention shall ipso jure involve
provided for in this Article, will be bound for the immediate denunciation of this
another period of ten years and, thereafter, Convention, notwithstanding the
may denounce the Convention or any one of provisions of Article 82 above, if and when
Parts II to X thereof at the expiration of each the new revising Convention shall have
period of ten years under the terms provided come into force;
for in this Article. (b) as from the date when the new revising
Convention comes into force, this
Article 83
Convention shall cease to be open to
1. The Director-General of the International ratification by the Members.
Labour Office shall notify all Members of the
2. This Convention shall in any case remain
International Labour Organisation of the
in force in its actual form and content for those
registration of all ratifications, declarations and
Members which have ratified it but have not
denunciations communicated to him by the
ratified the revising Convention.
Members of the Organisation.
2. When notifying the Members of the Article 87
Organisation of the registration of the second The English and French versions of the text of
ratification communicated to him, the Director- this Convention are equally authoritative.
General shall draw the attention of the
Members of the Organisation to the date upon ANNEX: International standard industrial
which the Convention will come into force. classification of all economic activities
(revised up to 1969)
Article 84
The Director-General of the International
Labour Office shall communicate to the
35

--- Page 42 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
C118 – Equality of Treatment (Social Security) Convention, 1962
Preamble
Article 2
The General Conference of the International
1. Each Member may accept the obligations
Labour Organisation,
of this Convention in respect of any one or
Having been convened at Geneva by the more of the following branches of social
Governing Body of the International Labour security for which it has in effective operation
Office, and having met in its Forty-sixth legislation covering its own nationals within its
Session on 6 June 1962, and own territory:
Having decided upon the adoption of certain (a) medical care;
proposals with regard to equality of treatment
(b) sickness benefit;
of nationals and non-nationals in social
(c) maternity benefit;
security, which is the fifth item on the agenda
of the session, and (d) invalidity benefit;
Having determined that these proposals shall (e) old-age benefit;
take the form of an international Convention, (f) survivors’ benefit;
adopts this twenty-eighth day of June of the (g) employment injury benefit;
year one thousand nine hundred and sixty-two (h) unemployment benefit; and
the following Convention, which may be cited
(i) family benefit.
as the Equality of Treatment (Social Security)
Convention, 1962: 2. Each Member for which this Convention is
in force shall comply with its provisions in
Article 1 respect of the branch or branches of social
In this Convention: security for which it has accepted the
obligations of the Convention.
(a) the term legislation includes any social
security rules as well as laws and 3. Each Member shall specify in its
regulations; ratification in respect of which branch or
branches of social security it accepts the
(b) the term benefits refers to all benefits,
obligations of this Convention.
grants and pensions, including any
supplements or increments; 4. Each Member which has ratified this
Convention may subsequently notify the
(c) the term benefits granted under
Director-General of the International Labour
transitional schemes means either
Office that it accepts the obligations of the
benefits granted to persons who have
Convention in respect of one or more branches
exceeded a prescribed age at the date
of social security not already specified in its
when the legislation applicable came into
ratification.
force, or benefits granted as a transitional
measure in consideration of events 5. The undertakings referred to in paragraph
occurring or periods completed outside the 4 of this Article shall be deemed to be an
present boundaries of the territory of a integral part of the ratification and to have the
Member; force of ratification as from the date of
notification.
(d) the term death grant means any lump
sum payable in the event of death; 6. For the purpose of the application of this
Convention, each Member accepting the
(e) the term residence means ordinary
obligations thereof in respect of any branch of
residence;
social security which has legislation providing
(f) the term prescribed means determined
for benefits of the type indicated in clause (a)
by or in virtue of national legislation as
or (b) below shall communicate to the Director-
defined in subparagraph (a) above;
General of the International Labour Office a
(g) the term refugee has the meaning statement indicating the benefits provided for
assigned to it in Article 1 of the Convention by its legislation which it considers to be:
relating to the Status of Refugees of 28
(a) benefits other than those the grant of
July 1951;
which depends either on direct financial
(h) the term stateless person has the participation by the persons protected or
meaning assigned to it in Article 1 of the their employer, or on a qualifying period of
Convention relating to the Status of occupational activity; or
Stateless Persons of 28 September 1954.
36

--- Page 43 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
(b) benefits granted under transitional (b) five consecutive years immediately
schemes. preceding the filing of claim, for grant of
7. The communication referred to in invalidity benefit, or immediately preceding
paragraph 6 of this Article shall be made at the death, for grant of survivors’ benefit;
time of ratification or at the time of notification (c) ten years after the age of 18, which may
in accordance with paragraph 4 of this Article; include five consecutive years
as regards any legislation adopted immediately preceding the filing of claim,
subsequently, the communication shall be for grant of old-age benefit.
made within three months of the date of the 3. Special provisions may be prescribed in
adoption of such legislation. respect of benefits granted under transitional
schemes.
Article 3
4. The measures necessary to prevent the
1. Each Member for which this Convention is
cumulation of benefits shall be determined, as
in force shall grant within its territory to the
necessary, by special arrangements between
nationals of any other Member for which the
the Members concerned.
Convention is in force equality of treatment
under its legislation with its own nationals, both Article 5
as regards coverage and as regards the right
1. In addition to the provisions of Article 4,
to benefits, in respect of every branch of social
each Member which has accepted the
security for which it has accepted the
obligations of this Convention in respect of the
obligations of the Convention.
branch or branches of social security
2. In the case of survivors’ benefits, such concerned shall guarantee both to its own
equality of treatment shall also be granted to nationals and to the nationals of any other
the survivors of the nationals of a Member for Member which has accepted the obligations of
which the Convention is in force, irrespective the Convention in respect of the branch or
of the nationality of such survivors. branches in question, when they are resident
3. Nothing in the preceding paragraphs of abroad, provision of invalidity benefits, old-age
this Article shall require a Member to apply the benefits, survivors’ benefits and death grants,
provisions of these paragraphs, in respect of and employment injury pensions, subject to
the benefits of a specified branch of social measures for this purpose being taken, where
security, to the nationals of another Member necessary, in accordance with Article 8.
which has legislation relating to that branch but 2. In case of residence abroad, the provision
does not grant equality of treatment in respect of invalidity, old-age and survivors’ benefits of
thereof to the nationals of the first Member. the type referred to in paragraph 6 (a) of Article
2 may be made subject to the participation of
Article 4
the Members concerned in schemes for the
1. Equality of treatment as regards the grant
maintenance of rights as provided for in
of benefits shall be accorded without any
Article 7.
condition of residence: Provided that equality
3. The provisions of this Article do not apply
of treatment in respect of the benefits of a
to benefits granted under transitional
specified branch of social security may be
schemes.
made conditional on residence in the case of
nationals of any Member the legislation of Article 6
which makes the grant of benefits under that
In addition to the provisions of Article 4, each
branch conditional on residence on its territory.
Member which has accepted the obligations of
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Convention in respect of family benefit
paragraph 1 of this Article, the grant of the shall guarantee the grant of family allowances
benefits referred to in paragraph 6 (a) of Article both to its own nationals and to the nationals
2--other than medical care, sickness benefit, of any other Member which has accepted the
employment injury benefit and family benefit-- obligations of this Convention for that branch,
may be made subject to the condition that the in respect of children who reside on the
beneficiary has resided on the territory of the territory of any such Member, under conditions
Member in virtue of the legislation of which the and within limits to be agreed upon by the
benefit is due, or, in the case of a survivor, that Members concerned.
the deceased had resided there, for a period
which shall not exceed: Article 7
(a) six months immediately preceding the 1. Members for which this Convention is in
filing of claim, for grant of maternity benefit force shall, upon terms being agreed between
and unemployment benefit; the Members concerned in accordance with
Article 8, endeavour to participate in schemes
37

--- Page 44 ---
Building social protection systems
for the maintenance of the acquired rights and and the execution of their respective social
rights in course of acquisition under their security legislation.
legislation of the nationals of Members for Article 12
which the Convention is in force, for all
1. This Convention does not apply to benefits
branches of social security in respect of which
payable prior to the coming into force of the
the Members concerned have accepted the
Convention for the Member concerned in
obligations of the Convention.
respect of the branch of social security under
2. Such schemes shall provide, in particular, which the benefit is payable.
for the totalisation of periods of insurance,
2. The extent to which the Convention
employment or residence and of assimilated
applies to benefits attributable to
periods for the purpose of the acquisition,
contingencies occurring before its coming into
maintenance or recovery of rights and for the
force for the Member concerned in respect of
calculation of benefits.
the branch of social security under which the
3. The cost of invalidity, old-age and benefit is payable thereafter shall be
survivors’ benefits as so determined shall determined by multilateral or bilateral
either be shared among the Members agreement or in default thereof by the
concerned, or be borne by the Member on legislation of the Member concerned.
whose territory the beneficiaries reside, as
may be agreed upon by the Members Article 13
concerned. This Convention shall not be regarded as
revising any existing Convention.
Article 8
The Members for which this Convention is in Article 14
force may give effect to their obligations under The formal ratifications of this Convention shall
the provisions of Articles 5 and 7 by ratification be communicated to the Director-General of
of the Maintenance of Migrants’ Pension the International Labour Office for registration.
Rights Convention, 1935, by the application of
the provisions of that Convention as between Article 15
particular Members by mutual agreement, or 1. This Convention shall be binding only
by any multilateral or bilateral agreement upon those Members of the International
giving effect to these obligations. Labour Organisation whose ratifications have
been registered with the Director-General.
Article 9
2. It shall come into force twelve months after
The provisions of this Convention may be the date on which the ratifications of two
derogated from by agreements between Members have been registered with the
Members which do not affect the rights and Director-General.
duties of other Members and which make
3. Thereafter, this Convention shall come
provision for the maintenance of rights in
into force for any Member twelve months after
course of acquisition and of acquired rights
the date on which its ratification has been
under conditions at least as favourable on the
registered.
whole as those provided for in this Convention.
Article 16
Article 10
1. A Member which has ratified this
1. The provisions of this Convention apply to
Convention may denounce it after the
refugees and stateless persons without any
expiration of ten years from the date on which
condition of reciprocity.
the Convention first comes into force, by an act
2. This Convention does not apply to special communicated to the Director-General of the
schemes for civil servants, special schemes International Labour Office for registration.
for war victims, or public assistance. Such denunciation shall not take effect until
3. This Convention does not require any one year after the date on which it is
Member to apply the provisions thereof to registered.
persons who, in accordance with the 2. Each Member which has ratified this
provisions of international instruments, are Convention and which does not, within the
exempted from its national social security year following the expiration of the period of
legislation. ten years mentioned in the preceding
paragraph, exercise the right of denunciation
Article 11
provided for in this Article, will be bound for
The Members for which this Convention is in
another period of ten years and, thereafter,
force shall afford each other administrative
may denounce this Convention at the
assistance free of charge with a view to
facilitating the application of the Convention
38

--- Page 45 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
expiration of each period of ten years under a report on the working of this Convention and
the terms provided for in this Article. shall examine the desirability of placing on the
agenda of the Conference the question of its
Article 17
revision in whole or in part.
1. The Director-General of the International
Labour Office shall notify all Members of the Article 20
International Labour Organisation of the 1. Should the Conference adopt a new
registration of all ratifications and Convention revising this Convention in whole
denunciations communicated to him by the or in part, then, unless the new Convention
Members of the Organisation. otherwise provides:
2. When notifying the Members of the (a) the ratification by a Member of the new
Organisation of the registration of the second revising Convention shall ipso jure involve
ratification communicated to him, the Director- the immediate denunciation of this
General shall draw the attention of the Convention, notwithstanding the
Members of the Organisation to the date upon provisions of Article 16 above, if and when
which the Convention will come into force. the new revising Convention shall have
come into force;
Article 18
(b) as from the date when the new revising
The Director-General of the International
Convention comes into force this
Labour Office shall communicate to the
Convention shall cease to be open to
Secretary-General of the United Nations for
ratification by the Members.
registration in accordance with Article 102 of
2. This Convention shall in any case remain
the Charter of the United Nations full
in force in its actual form and content for those
particulars of all ratifications and acts of
Members which have ratified it but have not
denunciation registered by him in accordance
ratified the revising Convention.
with the provisions of the preceding Articles.
Article 21
Article 19
The English and French versions of the text of
At such times as it may consider necessary the
this Convention are equally authoritative.
Governing Body of the International Labour
Office shall present to the General Conference
C121 – Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964
Preamble
Article 1
The General Conference of the International
In this Convention:
Labour Organisation,
(a) the term legislation includes any social
Having been convened at Geneva by the
security rules as well as laws and
Governing Body of the International Labour
regulations;
Office, and having met in its Forty-eighth
(b) the term prescribed means determined
Session on 17 June 1964, and
by or in virtue of national legislation;
Having decided upon the adoption of certain
(c) the term industrial undertaking includes
proposals with regard to benefits in the case of
all undertakings in the following branches
industrial accidents and occupational
of economic activity: mining and quarrying;
diseases, which is the fifth item on the agenda
manufacturing; construction; electricity,
of the session, and
gas, water and sanitary services; and
Having determined that these proposals shall
transport, storage and communication;
take the form of an international Convention,
(d) the term dependent refers to a state of
adopts this eighth day of July of the year one
dependency which is presumed to exist in
thousand nine hundred and sixty-four the
prescribed cases;
following Convention, which may be cited as
(e) the term dependent child covers:
the Employment Injury Benefits Convention,
1964: (i) a child under school-leaving age or
under 15 years of age, whichever is
the higher, and
39

--- Page 46 ---
Building social protection systems
(ii) a child under a prescribed age higher respect of a category or categories excluded
than that specified in subclause (i) and at the time of its ratification.
who is an apprentice or student or has
Article 4
a chronic illness or infirmity disabling
him for any gainful activity, on 1. National legislation concerning employment
conditions laid down by national injury benefits shall protect all employees,
legislation: Provided that this including apprentices, in the public and private
requirement shall be deemed to be sectors, including co-operatives, and, in respect
met where national legislation defines of the death of the breadwinner, prescribed
the term so as to cover any child under categories of beneficiaries.
an age appreciably higher than that 2. Any Member may make such exceptions
specified in subclause (i). as it deems necessary in respect of:
(a) persons whose employment is of a casual
Article 2
nature and who are employed otherwise
1. A Member whose economic and medical
than for the purpose of the employer’s
facilities are insufficiently developed may avail
trade or business;
itself by a declaration accompanying its
(b) out-workers;
ratification of the temporary exceptions
provided for in the following Articles: Article 5, (c) members of the employer’s family living in
Article 9, paragraph 3, clause (b), Article 12, his house, in respect of their work for him;
Article 15, paragraph 2, and Article 18, (d) other categories of employees, which shall
paragraph 3. Any such declaration shall state not exceed in number 10 per cent. of all
the reason for such exceptions. employees other than those excluded
2. Each Member which has made a under clauses (a) to (c).
declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article
Article 5
shall include in its report upon the application
of this Convention submitted under Article 22 Where a declaration provided for in Article 2 is
of the Constitution of the International Labour in force, the application of national legislation
Organisation a statement in respect of each concerning employment injury benefits may be
exception of which it avails itself: limited to prescribed categories of employees,
which shall total in number not less than 75 per
(a) that its reason for doing so subsists; or
cent. of all employees in industrial
(b) that it renounces its right to avail itself of undertakings, and, in respect of the death of
the exception in question as from a stated the breadwinner, prescribed categories of
date. beneficiaries.
Article 3 Article 6
1. Any Member which ratifies this The contingencies covered shall include the
Convention may, by a declaration following where due to an employment injury:
accompanying its ratification, exclude from the
(a) a morbid condition;
application of the Convention:
(b) incapacity for work resulting from such a
(a) seafarers, including seafishermen,
condition and involving suspension of
(b) public servants, earnings, as defined by national
where these categories are protected by legislation;
special schemes which provide in the (c) total loss of earning capacity or partial loss
aggregate benefits at least equivalent to those thereof in excess of a prescribed degree,
required by this Convention. likely to be permanent, or corresponding
2. Where a declaration under paragraph 1 of loss of faculty; and
this Article is in force, the Member may (d) the loss of support suffered as the result of
exclude the persons belonging to the category the death of the breadwinner by prescribed
or categories excluded from the application of categories of beneficiaries.
the Convention from the number of employees
when calculating the percentage of employees Article 7
in compliance with paragraph 2, clause (d), of 1. Each Member shall prescribe a definition
Article 4, and with Article 5. of “industrial accident”, including the
3. Any Member which has made a conditions under which a commuting accident
declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article is considered to be an industrial accident, and
may subsequently notify the Director-General shall specify the terms of such definition in its
of the International Labour Office that it reports upon the application of this Convention
accepts the obligations of this Convention in submitted under Article 22 of the Constitution
of the International Labour Organisation.
40

--- Page 47 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
2. Where commuting accidents are covered (b) where a declaration provided for in
by social security schemes other than Article 2 is in force.
employment injury schemes, and these
Article 10
schemes provide in respect of commuting
accidents benefits which, when taken 1. Medical care and allied benefits in respect
together, are at least equivalent to those of a morbid condition shall comprise:
required under this Convention, it shall not be (a) general practitioner and specialist in-
necessary to make provision for commuting patient and out-patient care, including
accidents in the definition of “industrial domiciliary visiting;
accident”. (b) dental care;
Article 8 (c) nursing care at home or in hospital or other
medical institutions;
Each Member shall:
(d) maintenance in hospitals, convalescent
(a) prescribe a list of diseases, comprising at
homes, sanatoria or other medical
least the diseases enumerated in
institutions;
Schedule I to this Convention, which shall
be regarded as occupational diseases (e) dental, pharmaceutical and other medical
under prescribed conditions; or or surgical supplies, including prosthetic
appliances kept in repair and renewed as
(b) include in its legislation a general definition
necessary, and eyeglasses;
of occupational diseases broad enough to
cover at least the diseases enumerated in (f) the care furnished by members of such
Schedule I to this Convention; or other professions as may at any time be
legally recognised as allied to the medical
(c) prescribe a list of diseases in conformity
profession, under the supervision of a
with clause (a), complemented by a
medical or dental practitioner; and
general definition of occupational diseases
or by other provisions for establishing the (g) the following treatment at the place of
occupational origin of diseases not so work, wherever possible:
listed or manifesting themselves under (i) emergency treatment of persons
conditions different from those prescribed. sustaining a serious accident;
(ii) follow-up treatment of those whose
Article 9
injury is slight and does not entail
1. Each Member shall secure to the persons
discontinuance of work.
protected, subject to prescribed conditions, the
2. The benefits provided in accordance with
provision of the following benefits:
paragraph 1 of this Article shall be afforded,
(a) medical care and allied benefits in respect
using all suitable means, with a view to
of a morbid condition;
maintaining, restoring or, where this is not
(b) cash benefits in respect of the possible, improving the health of the injured
contingencies specified in Article 6, person and his ability to work and to attend to
clauses (b), (c) and (d). his personal needs.
2. Eligibility for benefits may not be made
Article 11
subject to the length of employment, to the
duration of insurance or to the payment of 1. Any Member which provides medical care
contributions: Provided that a period of and allied benefits by means of a general
exposure may be prescribed for occupational health scheme or a medical care scheme for
diseases. employed persons may specify in its legislation
that such care shall be made available to
3. The benefits shall be granted throughout
persons who have sustained employment
the contingency: Provided that in respect of
injuries on the same terms as to other persons
incapacity for work the cash benefit need not
entitled thereto, on condition that the rules on
be paid for the first three days:
the subject are so designed as to avoid
(a) where the legislation of a Member
hardship.
provides for a waiting period at the date on
2. Any Member which provides medical care
which this Convention comes into force, on
and allied benefits by reimbursing expenses
condition that the Member includes in its
may in its legislation make special rules in
reports upon the application of this
respect of cases in which the extent, duration
Convention submitted under Article 22 of
or cost of such care exceed reasonable limits,
the Constitution of the International Labour
on condition that the rules on the subject are
Organisation a statement that its reason
not inconsistent with the purpose stated in
for availing itself of this provision subsists;
paragraph 2 of Article 10 and are so designed
or
as to avoid hardship.
41

--- Page 48 ---
Building social protection systems
Article 12 Article 15
Where a declaration provided for in Article 2 is 1. In exceptional circumstances, and with the
in force, medical care and allied benefits shall agreement of the injured person, all or part of
include at least: the periodical payment provided for in
(a) general practitioner care, including paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 14 may be
domiciliary visiting; converted into a lump sum corresponding to
the actuarial equivalent thereof when the
(b) specialist care at hospitals for in-patients
competent authority has reason to believe that
and out-patients, and such specialist care
such lump sum will be utilised in a manner
as may be available outside hospitals;
which is particularly advantageous for the
(c) the essential pharmaceutical supplies on
injured person.
prescription by a medical or other qualified
2. Where a declaration provided for in
practitioner;
Article 2 is in force and the Member concerned
(d) hospitalisation, where necessary; and
considers that it lacks the necessary
(e) wherever possible, emergency treatment administrative facilities for periodical
at the place of work of persons sustaining payments, the periodical payment provided for
an industrial accident. in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 14 may be
converted into a lump sum corresponding to
Article 13
the actuarial equivalent thereof, as computed
The cash benefit in respect of temporary or on the basis of available data.
initial incapacity for work shall be a periodical
payment calculated in such a manner as to Article 16
comply either with the requirements of Article 19 Increments in periodical payments or other
or with the requirements of Article 20. supplementary or special benefits, as
prescribed, shall be provided for disabled
Article 14
persons requiring the constant help or
1. Cash benefits in respect of loss of earning attendance of another person.
capacity likely to be permanent or
corresponding loss of faculty shall be payable Article 17
in all cases in which such loss, in excess of a The conditions in which periodical payments
prescribed degree, remains at the expiration of due in respect of loss of earning capacity or
the period during which benefits are payable in corresponding loss of faculty shall be
accordance with Article 13. reassessed, suspended or cancelled by
2. In case of total loss of earning capacity reference to a change in the degree of loss
likely to be permanent or corresponding loss of shall be prescribed.
faculty, the benefit shall be a periodical
Article 18
payment calculated in such a manner as to
comply either with the requirements of Article 1. The cash benefit in respect of death of the
19 or with the requirements of Article 20. breadwinner shall be a periodical payment to a
widow as prescribed, a disabled and
3. In case of substantial partial loss of
dependent widower, dependent children of the
earning capacity likely to be permanent which
deceased and other persons as may be
is in excess of a prescribed degree, or
prescribed; this payment shall be calculated in
corresponding loss of faculty, the benefit shall
such a manner as to comply either with the
be a periodical payment representing a
requirements of Article 19 or with the
suitable proportion of that provided for in
requirement of Article 20: Provided that it shall
paragraph 2 of this Article.
not be necessary to make provision for a
4. In case of partial loss of earning capacity
benefit to a disabled and dependent widower
likely to be permanent which is not substantial
where the cash benefits to other survivors are
but which is in excess of the prescribed degree
appreciably in excess of those required by this
referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, or
Convention and where social security
corresponding loss of faculty, the cash benefit
schemes other than employment injury
may take the form of a lump-sum payment.
schemes provide to such widower benefits
5. The degrees of loss of earning capacity or which are appreciably in excess of those in
corresponding loss of faculty referred to in respect of invalidity required under the Social
paragraphs 1 and 3 of this Article shall be Security (Minimum Standards) Convention,
prescribed in such manner as to avoid 1952.
hardship.
2. In addition, a funeral benefit shall be
provided at a prescribed rate which shall not
be less than the normal cost of a funeral:
Provided that where cash benefits to survivors
42

--- Page 49 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
are appreciably in excess of those required by (c) a person whose earnings are such as to
this Convention the right to funeral benefit may be equal to or greater than the earnings of
be made subject to prescribed conditions. 75 per cent. of all the persons protected,
3. Where a declaration provided for in Article 2 such earnings to be determined on the
is in force and the Member concerned considers basis of annual or shorter periods as may
that it lacks the necessary administrative be prescribed; or
facilities for periodical payments, the periodical (d) a person whose earnings are equal to
payment provided for in paragraph 1 of this 125 per cent. of the average earnings of all
Article may be converted into a lump sum the persons protected.
corresponding to the actuarial equivalent 7. The person deemed typical of skilled
thereof, as computed on the basis of available labour for the purpose of clause (b) of the
data. preceding paragraph shall be a person
employed in the major group of economic
Article 19
activities with the largest number of
1. In the case of a periodical payment to
economically active male persons protected in
which this Article applies, the rate of the
the contingency in question, or of the
benefit, increased by the amount of any family
breadwinners of the persons protected, as the
allowances payable during the contingency,
case may be, in the division comprising the
shall be such as to attain, in respect of the
largest number of such persons or
contingency in question, for the standard
breadwinners; for this purpose, the
beneficiary indicated in Schedule II to this
international standard industrial classification
Convention, at least the percentage indicated
of all economic activities, adopted by the
therein of the total of the previous earnings of
Economic and Social Council of the United
the beneficiary or his breadwinner and of the
Nations at its Seventh Session on 27 August
amount of any family allowances payable to a
1948, as amended and reproduced in the
person protected with the same family
Annex to this Convention, or such
responsibilities as the standard beneficiary.
classification as at any time further amended,
2. The previous earnings of the beneficiary or shall be used.
his breadwinner shall be calculated according
8. Where the rate of benefit varies by region,
to prescribed rules, and, where the persons
the skilled manual male employee may be
protected or their breadwinners are arranged
determined for each region in accordance with
in classes according to their earnings, their
paragraphs 6 and 7 of this Article.
previous earnings may be calculated from the
9. The wage of the skilled manual male
basic earnings of the classes to which they
employee shall be determined on the basis of
belonged.
the rates of wages for normal hours of work
3. A maximum limit may be prescribed for the
fixed by collective agreements, by or in
rate of the benefit or for the earnings taken into
pursuance of national laws or regulations,
account for the calculation of the benefit,
where applicable, or by custom, including cost-
provided that the maximum limit is fixed in
of-living allowances, if any; where such rates
such a way that the provisions of paragraph 1
differ by region but paragraph 8 of this Article
of this Article are complied with where the
is not applied, the median rate shall be taken.
previous earnings of the beneficiary or his
10. No periodical payment shall be less than
breadwinner are equal to or lower than the
a prescribed minimum amount.
wage of a skilled manual male employee.
4. The previous earnings of the beneficiary or Article 20
his breadwinner, the wage of the skilled 1. In the case of a periodical payment to
manual male employee, the benefit and any which this Article applies, the rate of the
family allowances shall be calculated on the benefit, increased by the amount of any family
same time basis. allowances payable during the contingency,
5. For the other beneficiaries the benefit shall shall be such as to attain, in respect of the
bear a reasonable relation to the benefit for the contingency in question, for the standard
standard beneficiary. beneficiary indicated in Schedule II to this
6. For the purpose of this Article, a skilled Convention, at least the percentage indicated
manual male employee shall be: therein of the total of the wage of an ordinary
adult male labourer and of the amount of any
(a) a fitter or turner in the manufacture of
family allowances payable to a person
machinery other than electrical machinery;
protected with the same family responsibilities
or
as the standard beneficiary.
(b) a person deemed typical of skilled labour
2. The wage of the ordinary adult male
selected in accordance with the provisions
labourer, the benefit and any family
of the following paragraph; or
43

--- Page 50 ---
Building social protection systems
allowances shall be calculated on the same of the Constitution of the International Labour
time basis. Organisation, and shall specify any action
3. For the other beneficiaries, the benefit taken.
shall bear a reasonable relation to the benefit
Article 22
for the standard beneficiary.
1. A benefit to which a person protected
4. For the purpose of this Article, the ordinary
would otherwise be entitled in compliance with
adult male labourer shall be:
this Convention may be suspended to such
(a) a person deemed typical of unskilled extent as may be prescribed:
labour in the manufacture of machinery
(a) as long as the person concerned is absent
other than electrical machinery; or
from the territory of the Member;
(b) a person deemed typical of unskilled
(b) as long as the person concerned is
labour selected in accordance with the
maintained at public expense or at the
provisions of the following paragraph.
expense of a social security institution or
5. The person deemed typical of unskilled service;
labour for the purpose of clause (b) of the
(c) where the person concerned has made a
preceding paragraph shall be a person
fraudulent claim;
employed in the major group of economic
(d) where the employment injury has been
activities with the largest number of
caused by a criminal offence committed by
economically active male persons protected in
the person concerned;
the contingency in question, or of the
breadwinners of the persons protected, as the (e) where the employment injury has been
case may be, in the division comprising the caused by voluntary intoxication or by the
largest number of such persons or serious and wilful misconduct of the
breadwinners; for this purpose the person concerned;
international standard industrial classification (f) where the person concerned, without good
of all economic activities, adopted by the cause, neglects to make use of the
Economic and Social Council of the United medical care and allied benefits or the
Nations at its Seventh Session on 27 August rehabilitation services placed at his
1948, as amended and reproduced in the disposal, or fails to comply with rules
Annex to this Convention, or such prescribed for verifying the occurrence or
classification as at any time further amended, continuance of the contingency or for the
shall be used. conduct of beneficiaries; and
6. Where the rate of benefit varies by region, (g) as long as the surviving spouse is living
the ordinary adult male labourer may be with another person as spouse.
determined for each region in accordance with 2. In the cases and within the limits
paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Article. prescribed, part of the cash benefit otherwise
7. The wage of the ordinary adult male due shall be paid to the dependants of the
labourer shall be determined on the basis of person concerned.
the rates of wages for normal hours of work
fixed by collective agreements, by or in Article 23
pursuance of national laws or regulations, 1. Every claimant shall have a right of appeal
where applicable, or by custom, including cost- in the case of refusal of the benefit or
of-living allowances if any; where such rates complaint as to its quality or quantity.
differ by region but paragraph 6 of this Article 2. Where in the application of this
is not applied, the median rate shall be taken. Convention a government department
8. No periodical payment shall be less than a responsible to a legislature is entrusted with
prescribed minimum amount. the administration of medical care, the right of
appeal provided for in paragraph 1 of this
Article 21 Article may be replaced by a right to have a
1. The rates of cash benefits currently complaint concerning the refusal of medical
payable pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 3 of care or the quality of the care received
Article 14 and paragraph 1 of Article 18 shall investigated by the appropriate authority.
be reviewed following substantial changes in 3. Where a claim is settled by a special
the general level of earnings where these tribunal established to deal with employment
result from substantial changes in the cost of injury benefit questions or with social security
living. questions in general and on which the persons
2. Each Member shall include the findings of protected are represented, no right of appeal
such reviews in its reports upon the application shall be required.
of this Convention submitted under Article 22
44

--- Page 51 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Article 24 2. Ratification of this Convention by a
1. Where the administration is not entrusted Member which is a party to the Workmen’s
to an institution regulated by the public Compensation (Occupational Diseases)
authorities or to a government department Convention (Revised), 1934, shall, in
responsible to a legislature, representatives of accordance with Article 8 thereof, ipso jure
the persons protected shall participate in the involve the immediate denunciation of that
management, or be associated therewith in a Convention, if and when this Convention shall
consultative capacity, under prescribed have come into force, but the coming into force
conditions; national legislation may likewise of this Convention shall not close that
decide as to the participation of Convention to further ratification.
representatives of employers and of the public
Article 29
authorities.
In conformity with Article 75 of the Social
2. The Member shall accept general
Security (Minimum Standards) Convention,
responsibility for the proper administration of
1952, Part VI of that Convention and the
the institutions or services concerned in the
relevant provisions of other Parts thereof shall
application of this Convention.
cease to apply to any Member having ratified
Article 25 this Convention as from the date at which this
Convention comes into force for that Member,
Each Member shall accept general
but acceptance of the obligations of this
responsibility for the due provision of the
Convention shall be deemed to constitute
benefits provided in compliance with this
acceptance of the obligations of Part VI of the
Convention and shall take all measures
Social Security (Minimum Standards)
required for this purpose.
Convention, 1952, and the relevant provisions
Article 26 of other Parts thereof, for the purpose of
1. Each Member shall, under prescribed Article 2 of the said Convention.
conditions:
Article 30
(a) take measures to prevent industrial
If any Convention which may be adopted
accidents and occupational diseases;
subsequently by the Conference concerning
(b) provide rehabilitation services which are any subject or subjects dealt with in this
designed to prepare a disabled person Convention so provides, such provisions of
wherever possible for the resumption of this Convention as may be specified in the said
his previous activity, or, if this is not Convention shall cease to apply to any
possible, the most suitable alternative Member having ratified the said Convention as
gainful activity, having regard to his from the date at which the said Convention
aptitudes and capacity; and comes into force for that Member.
(c) take measures to further the placement of
Article 31
disabled persons in suitable employment.
1. The International Labour Conference may,
2. Each Member shall as far as possible
at any session at which the matter is included
furnish in its reports upon the application of this
in its agenda, adopt by a two-thirds majority
Convention submitted under Article 22 of the
amendments to Schedule I to this Convention.
Constitution of the International Labour
Organisation information concerning the 2. Such amendments shall take effect in
frequency and severity of industrial accidents. respect of any Member already a party to the
Convention when such Member notifies the
Article 27 Director-General of the International Labour
Each Member shall within its territory assure to Office of its acceptance thereof.
non-nationals equality of treatment with its own 3. Unless the Conference otherwise decides
nationals as regards employment injury when adopting an amendment, an amendment
benefits. shall be effective, by reason of its adoption by
the Conference, in respect of any Member
Article 28
subsequently ratifying the Convention.
1. This Convention revises the Workmen’s
Compensation (Agriculture) Convention, 1921, Article 32
the Workmen’s Compensation (Accidents) The formal ratifications of this Convention shall
Convention, 1925, the Workmen’s be communicated to the Director-General of
Compensation (Occupational Diseases) the International Labour Office for registration.
Convention, 1925, and the Workmen’s
Compensation (Occupational Diseases)
Convention (Revised), 1934.
45

--- Page 52 ---
Building social protection systems
Article 33 Members of the Organisation to the date upon
1. This Convention shall be binding only which the Convention will come into force.
upon those Members of the International
Article 36
Labour Organisation whose ratifications have
The Director-General of the International
been registered with the Director-General.
Labour Office shall communicate to the
2. It shall come into force twelve months after
Secretary-General of the United Nations for
the date on which the ratifications of two
registration in accordance with Article 102 of
Members have been registered with the
the Charter of the United Nations full
Director-General.
particulars of all ratifications and acts of
3. Thereafter, this Convention shall come denunciation registered by him in accordance
into force for any Member twelve months after with the provisions of the preceding Articles.
the date on which its ratifications has been
registered. Article 37
At such times as it may consider necessary the
Article 34
Governing Body of the International Labour
1. A Member which has ratified this Office shall present to the General Conference
Convention may denounce it after the a report on the working of this Convention and
expiration of ten years from the date on which shall examine the desirability of placing on the
the Convention first comes into force, by an act agenda of the Conference the question of its
communicated to the Director-General of the revision in whole or in part.
International Labour Office for registration.
Such denunciation shall not take effect until Article 38
one year after the date on which it is 1. Should the Conference adopt a new
registered. Convention revising this Convention in whole
2. Each Member which has ratified this or in part, then, unless the new Convention
Convention and which does not, within the otherwise provides:
year following the expiration of the period of (a) the ratification by a Member of the new
ten years mentioned in the preceding revising Convention shall ipso jure involve
paragraph, exercise the right of denunciation the immediate denunciation of this
provided for in this Article, will be bound for Convention, notwithstanding the
another period of ten years and, thereafter, provisions of Article 34 above, if and when
may denounce this Convention at the the new revising Convention shall have
expiration of each period of ten years under come into force;
the terms provided for in this Article. (b) as from the date when the new revising
Convention comes into force this
Article 35
Convention shall cease to be open to
1. The Director-General of the International
ratification by the Members.
Labour Office shall notify all Members of the
2. This Convention shall in any case remain
International Labour Organisation of the
in force in its actual form and content for those
registration of all ratifications and denunciations
Members which have ratified it but have not
communicated to him by the Members of the
ratified the revising Convention.
Organisation.
2. When notifying the Members of the Article 39
Organisation of the registration of the second The English and French versions of the text of
ratification communicated to him, the Director- this Convention are equally authoritative.
General shall draw the attention of the
46

--- Page 53 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
SCHEDULE I. LIST OF OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES
Occupational diseases Work involving exposure to
risk *
1. Pneumoconioses caused by sclerogenic mineral All work involving exposure to the
dust (silicosis, anthraco-silicosis, asbestosis) and silico- risk concerned.
tuberculosis, provided that silicosis is an essential factor
in causing the resultant incapacity or death.
2. Bronchopulmonary diseases caused by hard-metal "
dust.
3. Bronchopulmonary diseases caused by cotton dust "
(byssinosis), or flax, hemp or sisal dust.
4. Occupational asthma caused by sensitising agents "
or irritants both recognised in this regard and inherent in
the work process.
5. Extrinsic allergic alveolitis and its sequelae caused "
by the inhalation of organic dusts, as prescribed by
national legislation.
6. Diseases caused by beryllium or its toxic "
compounds.
7. Diseases caused by cadmium or its toxic "
compounds.
8. Diseases caused by phosphorus or its toxic "
compounds.
9. Diseases caused by chromium or its toxic "
compounds.
10. Diseases caused by manganese or its toxic "
compounds.
11. Diseases caused by arsenic or its toxic "
compounds.
12. Diseases caused by mercury or its toxic "
compounds.
13. Diseases caused by lead or its toxic compounds. "
14. Diseases caused by fluorine or its toxic "
compounds.
15. Diseases caused by carbon disulfide. "
16. Diseases caused by the toxic halogen derivatives "
of aliphatic or aromatic hydrocarbons.
17. Diseases caused by benzene or its toxic "
homologues.
18. Diseases caused by toxic nitro- and amino- "
derivatives of benzene or its homologues.
19. Diseases caused by nitroglycerin or other nitric acid "
esters.
20. Diseases caused by alcohols, glycols or ketones. "
21. Diseases caused by asphyxiants: carbon "
monoxide, hydrogen cyanide or its toxic derivatives,
hydrogen sulfide.
22. Hearing impairment caused by noise. "
47

--- Page 54 ---
Building social protection systems
Occupational diseases Work involving exposure to
risk *
23. Diseases caused by vibration (disorders of "
muscles, tendons, bones, joints, peripheral blood
vessels or peripheral nerves).
24. Diseases caused by work in compressed air. "
25. Diseases caused by ionising radiations. All work involving exposure to the
action of ionising radiations.
26. Skin diseases caused by physical, chemical or All work involving exposure to the
biological agents not included under other items. risk concerned.
27. Primary epitheliomatous cancer of the skin caused "
by tar, pitch, bitumen, mineral oil, anthracene, or the
compounds, products or residues of these substances.
28. Lung cancer or mesotheliomas caused by "
asbestos.
29. Infectious or parasitic diseases contracted in an (a) Health or laboratory work.
occupation where there is a particular risk of (b) Veterinary work.
contamination. (c) Work handling animals, animal
carcasses, parts of such
carcasses, or merchandise
which may have been
contaminated by animals,
animal carcasses, or parts of
such carcasses.
(d) Other work carrying a
particular risk of contamination.
* In the application of this Schedule the degree and type of exposure should be taken into account
when appropriate.
SCHEDULE II. PERIODICAL PAYMENTS TO STANDARD BENEFICIARIES
Category Standard beneficiary Percentage
1. Temporary or initial incapacity Man with wife and two children 60
for work
2. Total loss of earning capacity Man with wife and two children 60
or corresponding loss of faculty
3. Death of breadwinner Widow with two children 50
ANNEX: International standard industrial List of major divisions, divisions and major
classification of all economic activities groups
(revised up to 1969)
C128 – Invalidity, Old-Age and Survivors’ Benefits Convention, 1967
Preamble Having decided upon the adoption of certain
The General Conference of the International proposals with regard to the revision of the
Labour Organisation, Old-Age Insurance (Industry, etc.) Convention,
1933, the Old-Age Insurance (Agriculture)
Having been convened at Geneva by the
Convention, 1933, the Invalidity Insurance
Governing Body of the International Labour
(Industry, etc.) Convention, 1933, the Invalidity
Office, and having met in its Fifty-first Session
Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1933, the
on 7 June 1967, and
Survivors’ Insurance (Industry, etc.)
48

--- Page 55 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Convention, 1933, and the Survivors’ employment, or a period of residence, or
Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1933, any combination thereof, as may be
which is the fourth item on the agenda of the prescribed;
session, and (j) the terms contributory benefits and non-
Having determined that these proposals shall contributory benefits means
take the form of an international Convention, respectively benefits the grant of which
adopts this twenty-ninth day of June of the depends or does not depend on direct
year one thousand nine hundred and sixty- financial participation by the persons
seven the following Convention, which may be protected or their employer or on a
cited as the Invalidity, Old-Age and Survivors’ qualifying period of occupational activity.
Benefits Convention, 1967:
Article 2
PART I. GENERAL PROVISIONS 1. Each Member for which this Convention is
Article 1 in force shall comply with:
In this Convention: (a) Part I;
(a) the term legislation includes any social (b) at least one of Parts II, III and IV;
security rules as well as laws and (c) the relevant provisions of Parts V and VI;
regulations; and
(b) the term prescribed means determined (d) Part VII.
by or in virtue of national legislation; 2. Each Member shall specify in its
(c) the term industrial undertaking includes ratification in respect of which of Parts II to IV
all undertakings in the following branches it accepts the obligations of the Convention.
of economic activity: mining and quarrying;
Article 3
manufacturing; construction; electricity,
gas, water and sanitary services; and 1. Each Member which has ratified this
transport, storage and communication; Convention may subsequently notify the
Director-General of the International Labour
(d) the term residence means ordinary
Office that it accepts the obligations of the
residence in the territory of the Member,
Convention in respect of one or more of Parts
and the term resident means a person
II to IV not already specified in its ratification.
ordinarily resident in the territory of the
Member; 2. The undertakings referred to in paragraph
1 of this Article shall be deemed to be an
(e) the term dependent refers to a state of
integral part of the ratification and to have the
dependency which is presumed to exist in
force of ratification as from the date of
prescribed cases;
notification.
(f) the term wife means a wife who is
Article 4
dependent on her husband;
1. A Member whose economy is insufficiently
(g) the term widow means a woman who was
developed may avail itself, by a declaration
dependent on her husband at the time of
accompanying its ratification, of the temporary
his death;
exceptions provided for in the following
(h) the term child covers:
Articles: Article 9, paragraph 2; Article 13,
(i) a child under school-leaving age or paragraph 2; Article 16, paragraph 2; and
under 15 years of age, whichever is Article 22, paragraph 2. Any such declaration
the higher; and shall state the reason for such exceptions.
(ii) a child under a prescribed age higher 2. Each Member which has made a
than that specified in clause (i) of this declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article
subparagraph and who is an shall include in its reports upon the application
apprentice or student or has a chronic of this Convention submitted under Article 22
illness or infirmity disabling him for any of the Constitution of the International Labour
gainful activity, under prescribed Organisation a statement in respect of each
conditions: Provided that this exception of which it avails itself:
requirement shall be deemed to be
(a) that its reason for doing so subsists; or
met where national legislation defines
(b) that it renounces its right to avail itself of
the term so as to cover any child under
the exception in question as from a stated
an age appreciably higher than that
date.
specified in clause (i) of this
subparagraph; 3. Each Member which has made a
declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article
(i) the term qualifying period means a
shall increase the number of employees
period of contribution, or a period of
protected as circumstances permit.
49

--- Page 56 ---
Building social protection systems
Article 5 (a) prescribed classes of employees,
Where, for the purpose of compliance with any constituting not less than 25 per cent. of all
of the Parts II to IV of this Convention which employees;
are to be covered by its ratification, a Member (b) prescribed classes of employees in
is required to protect prescribed classes of industrial undertakings, constituting not
persons constituting not less than a specified less than 50 per cent. of all employees in
percentage of employees or of the whole industrial undertakings.
economically active population, the Member
Article 10
shall satisfy itself, before undertaking to
comply with any such Part, that the relevant The invalidity benefit shall be a periodical
percentage is attained. payment calculated as follows:
(a) where employees or classes of the
Article 6
economically active population are
For the purpose of compliance with Parts II, III protected, in such a manner as to comply
or IV of this Convention, a Member may take either with the requirements of Article 26
account of protection effected by means of or with the requirements of Article 27;
insurance which, although not made
(b) where all residents or all residents whose
compulsory by its legislation for the persons to
means during the contingency do not
be protected:
exceed prescribed limits are protected, in
(a) is supervised by the public authorities or such a manner as to comply with the
administered, in accordance with requirements of Article 28.
prescribed standards, by joint operation of
employers and workers; Article 11
(b) covers a substantial part of the persons 1. The benefit specified in Article 10 shall, in
whose earnings do not exceed those of the a contingency covered, be secured at least:
skilled manual male employee; and (a) to a person protected who has completed,
(c) complies, in conjunction with other forms prior to the contingency, in accordance
of protection, where appropriate, with the with prescribed rules, a qualifying period
relevant provisions of the Convention. which may be 15 years of contribution or
employment, or ten years of residence; or
PART II. INVALIDITY BENEFIT
(b) where, in principle, all economically active
Article 7 persons are protected, to a person
Each Member for which this Part of this protected who has completed, prior to the
Convention is in force shall secure to the contingency, in accordance with
persons protected the provision of invalidity prescribed rules, a qualifying period of
benefit in accordance with the following three years of contribution and in respect
Articles of this Part. of whom, while he was of working age, the
prescribed yearly average number or
Article 8
yearly number of contributions has been
The contingency covered shall include paid.
incapacity to engage in any gainful activity, to
2. Where the invalidity benefit is conditional
an extent prescribed, which incapacity is likely
upon a minimum period of contribution,
to be permanent or persists after the
employment or residence, a reduced benefit
termination of a prescribed period of temporary
shall be secured at least:
or initial incapacity.
(a) to a person protected who has completed,
Article 9 prior to the contingency, in accordance
1. The persons protected shall comprise: with prescribed rules, a qualifying period of
five years of contribution, employment or
(a) all employees, including apprentices; or
residence; or
(b) prescribed classes of the economically
(b) where, in principle, all economically active
active population, constituting not less
persons are protected, to a person
than 75 per cent. of the whole
protected who has completed, prior to the
economically active population; or
contingency, in accordance with
(c) all residents, or residents whose means prescribed rules, a qualifying period of
during the contingency do not exceed three years of contribution and in respect
limits prescribed in such a manner as to of whom, while he was of working age, half
comply with the requirements of Article 28. of the yearly average number or of the
2. Where a declaration made in virtue of yearly number of contributions prescribed
Article 4 is in force, the persons protected shall in accordance with subparagraph (b) of
comprise: paragraph 1 of this Article has been paid.
50

--- Page 57 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
3. The requirements of paragraph 1 of this benefit in accordance with the following
Article shall be deemed to be satisfied where a Articles of this Part.
benefit calculated in conformity with the
Article 15
requirements of Part V but at a percentage of
ten points lower than shown in the Schedule 1. The contingency covered shall be survival
appended to that Part for the standard beyond a prescribed age.
beneficiary concerned is secured at least to a 2. The prescribed age shall be not more than
person protected who has completed, in 65 years or such higher age as may be fixed
accordance with prescribed rules, five years of by the competent authority with due regard to
contribution, employment or residence. demographic, economic and social criteria,
4. A proportional reduction of the percentage which shall be demonstrated statistically.
indicated in the Schedule appended to Part V 3. If the prescribed age is 65 years or higher,
may be effected where the qualifying period for the age shall be lowered, under prescribed
the benefit corresponding to the reduced conditions, in respect of persons who have
percentage exceeds five years of contribution, been engaged in occupations that are deemed
employment or residence but is less than by national legislation, for the purpose of old-
15 years of contribution or employment or ten age benefit, to be arduous or unhealthy.
years of residence; a reduced benefit shall be
payable in conformity with paragraph 2 of this Article 16
Article. 1. The persons protected shall comprise:
5. The requirements of paragraphs 1 and 2 (a) all employees, including apprentices; or
of this Article shall be deemed to be satisfied (b) prescribed classes of the economically
where a benefit calculated in conformity with active population, constituting not less
the requirements of Part V is secured at least than 75 per cent. of the whole
to a person protected who has completed, in economically active population; or
accordance with prescribed rules, a qualifying
(c) all residents or residents whose means
period of contribution or employment which
during the contingency do not exceed
shall not be more than five years at a
limits prescribed in such a manner as to
prescribed minimum age and may rise with
comply with the requirements of Article 28.
advancing age to not more than a prescribed
2. Where a declaration made in virtue of
maximum number of years.
Article 4 is in force, the persons protected shall
Article 12 comprise:
The benefit specified in Articles 10 and 11 shall (a) prescribed classes of employees,
be granted throughout the contingency or until constituting not less than 25 per cent. of all
an old-age benefit becomes payable. employees; or
(b) prescribed classes of employees in
Article 13
industrial undertakings, constituting not
1. Each Member for which this Part of this less than 50 per cent. of all employees in
Convention is in force shall, under prescribed industrial undertakings.
conditions:
(a) provide rehabilitation services which are Article 17
designed to prepare a disabled person The old-age benefit shall be a periodical
wherever possible for the resumption of payment calculated as follows:
his previous activity, or, if this is not (a) where employees or classes of the
possible, the most suitable alternative economically active population are
gainful activity, having regard to his protected, in such a manner as to comply
aptitudes and capacity; and either with the requirements of Article 26
(b) take measures to further the placement of or with the requirements of Article 27;
disabled persons in suitable employment. (b) where all residents or all residents whose
2. Where a declaration made in virtue of means during the contingency do not
Article 4 is in force, the Member may derogate exceed prescribed limits are protected, in
from the provisions of paragraph 1 of this such a manner as to comply with the
Article. requirements of Article 28.
PART III. OLD-AGE BENEFIT Article 18
Article 14 1. The benefit specified in Article 17 shall, in
Each Member for which this Part of this a contingency covered, be secured at least:
Convention is in force shall secure to the (a) to a person protected who has completed,
persons protected the provision of old-age prior to the contingency, in accordance
51

--- Page 58 ---
Building social protection systems
with prescribed rules, a qualifying period PART IV. SURVIVORS’ BENEFIT
which may be 30 years of contribution or Article 20
employment, or 20 years of residence; or
Each Member for which this Part of this
(b) where, in principle, all economically active Convention is in force shall secure to the
persons are protected, to a person persons protected the provision of survivors’
protected who has completed, prior to the benefit in accordance with the following
contingency, a prescribed qualifying Articles of this Part.
period of contribution and in respect of
whom, while he was of working age, the Article 21
prescribed yearly average number of 1. The contingency covered shall include the
contributions has been paid. loss of support suffered by the widow or child
2. Where the old-age benefit is conditional as the result of the death of the breadwinner.
upon a minimum period of contribution or 2. In the case of a widow the right to a
employment, a reduced benefit shall be survivors’ benefit may be made conditional on
secured at least: the attainment of a prescribed age. Such age
(a) to a person protected who has completed, shall not be higher than the age prescribed for
prior to the contingency, in accordance old-age benefit.
with prescribed rules, a qualifying period of 3. No requirement as to age may be made if
15 years of contribution or employment; or the widow:
(b) where, in principle, all economically active (a) is invalid, as may be prescribed; or
persons are protected, to a person
(b) is caring for a dependent child of the
protected who has completed, prior to the
deceased.
contingency, a prescribed qualifying
period of contribution and in respect of 4. In order that a widow who is without a child
whom, while he was of working age, half may be entitled to a survivors’ benefit, a
of the yearly average number of minimum duration of marriage may be
contributions prescribed in accordance required.
with subparagraph (b) of paragraph 1 of
Article 22
this Article has been paid.
1. The persons protected shall comprise:
3. The requirements of paragraph 1 of this
(a) the wives, children and, as may be
Article shall be deemed to be satisfied where a
prescribed, other dependants of all
benefit calculated in conformity with the
requirements of Part V but a percentage of ten breadwinners who were employees or
points lower than shown in the Schedule apprentices; or
appended to that Part for the standard (b) the wives, children and, as may be
beneficiary concerned is secured at least to a prescribed, other dependants of
person protected who has completed, in breadwinners in prescribed classes of the
accordance with prescribed rules, ten years of economically active population, which
contribution or employment, or five years of classes constitute not less than 75 per
residence. cent. of the whole economically active
4. A proportional reduction of the percentage population; or
indicated in the Schedule appended to Part V (c) all widows, all children and all other
may be effected where the qualifying period for prescribed dependants who have lost their
the benefit corresponding to the reduced breadwinner, who are residents and, as
percentage exceeds ten years of contribution or appropriate, whose means during the
employment or five years of residence but is contingency do not exceed limits
less than 30 years of contribution or prescribed in such a manner as to comply
employment or 20 years of residence; if such with the provisions of Article 28.
qualifying period exceeds 15 years of 2. Where a declaration made in virtue of
contribution or employment, a reduced benefit Article 4 is in force, the persons protected shall
shall be payable in conformity with paragraph 2 comprise:
of this Article. (a) the wives, children and, as may be
Article 19 prescribed, other dependants of
breadwinners, in prescribed classes of
The benefit specified in Articles 17 and 18 shall
employees, which classes constitute not
be granted throughout the contingency.
less than 25 per cent. of all employees; or
52

--- Page 59 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
(b) the wives, children and, as may be half of the yearly average number or of the
prescribed, other dependants of yearly number of contributions prescribed
breadwinners in prescribed classes of in accordance with subparagraph (b) of
employees in industrial undertakings, which paragraph 1 of this Article has been paid.
classes constitute not less than 50 per cent. 3. The requirements of paragraph 1 of this
of all employees in industrial undertakings. Article shall be deemed to be satisfied where a
benefit calculated in conformity with the
Article 23
requirements of Part V but at a percentage of
The survivors’ benefit shall be a periodical
ten points lower than shown in the Schedule
payment calculated as follows:
appended to that Part for the standard
(a) where employees or classes of the beneficiary concerned is secured at least to a
economically active population are person protected whose breadwinner has
protected, in such a manner as to comply completed, in accordance with prescribed
either with the requirements of Article 26 rules, five years of contribution, employment or
or with the requirements of Article 27; residence.
(b) where all residents or all residents whose 4. A proportional reduction of the percentage
means during the contingency do not indicated in the Schedule appended to Part V
exceed prescribed limits are protected, in may be effected where the qualifying period for
such a manner as to comply with the the benefit corresponding to the reduced
requirements of Article 28. percentage exceeds five years of contribution,
Article 24 employment or residence but is less than 15
1. The benefit specified in Article 23 shall, in years of contribution or employment or ten
a contingency covered, be secured at least: years of residence; if such qualifying period is
one of contribution or employment, a reduced
(a) to a person protected whose breadwinner
benefit shall be payable in conformity with
has completed, in accordance with
paragraph 2 of this Article.
prescribed rules, a qualifying period which
may be 15 years of contribution or 5. The requirements of paragraphs 1 and 2
employment, or ten years of residence: of this Article shall be deemed to be satisfied
Provided that, for a benefit payable to a where a benefit calculated in conformity with
widow, the completion of a prescribed the requirements of Part V is secured at least
qualifying period of residence by such to a person protected whose breadwinner has
widow may be required instead; or completed, in accordance with prescribed
rules, a qualifying period of contribution or
(b) where, in principle, the wives and children
employment which shall not be more than five
of all economically active persons are
years at a prescribed minimum age and may
protected, to a person protected whose
rise with advancing age to not more than a
breadwinner has completed, in
prescribed maximum number of years.
accordance with prescribed rules, a
qualifying period of three years of Article 25
contribution and in respect of whose
The benefit specified in Articles 23 and 24 shall
breadwinner, while he was of working age,
be granted throughout the contingency.
the prescribed yearly average number or
the yearly number of contributions has PART V. STANDARDS TO BE COMPLIED
been paid. WITH BY PERIODICAL PAYMENTS
2. Where the survivors’ benefit is conditional Article 26
upon a minimum period of contribution or 1. In the case of a periodical payment to
employment, a reduced benefit shall be which this Article applies, the rate of the
secured at least: benefit, increased by the amount of any family
(a) to a person protected whose breadwinner allowances payable during the contingency,
has completed, in accordance with shall be such as to attain, in respect of the
prescribed rules, a qualifying period of five contingency in question, for the standard
years of contribution or employment; or beneficiary indicated in the Schedule
(b) where, in principle, the wives and children appended to this Part, at least the percentage
of all economically active persons are indicated therein of the total of the previous
protected, to a person protected whose earnings of the beneficiary or his breadwinner
breadwinner has completed, in and of the amount of any family allowances
accordance with prescribed rules, a payable to a person protected with the same
qualifying period of three years of family responsibilities as the standard
contribution and in respect of whose beneficiary.
breadwinner, while he was of working age,
53

--- Page 60 ---
Building social protection systems
2. The previous earnings of the beneficiary or Annex to this Convention, or such
his breadwinner shall be calculated according classification as at any time further amended,
to prescribed rules, and, where the persons shall be used.
protected or their breadwinners are arranged 8. Where the rate of benefit varies by region,
in classes according to their earnings, their the skilled manual male employee may be
previous earnings may be calculated from the determined for each region in accordance with
basic earnings of the classes to which they paragraphs 6 and 7 of this Article.
belonged.
9. The wage of the skilled manual male
3. A maximum limit may be prescribed for the employee shall be determined on the basis of
rate of the benefit or for the earnings taken into the rates of wages for normal hours of work
account for the calculation of the benefit, fixed by collective agreements, by or in
provided that the maximum limit is fixed in pursuance of national legislation, where
such a way that the provisions of paragraph 1 applicable, or by custom, including cost-of-
of this Article are complied with where the living allowances if any; where such rates differ
previous earnings of the beneficiary or his by region but paragraph 8 of this Article is not
breadwinner are equal to or lower than the applied, the median rate shall be taken.
wage of a skilled manual male employee.
Article 27
4. The previous earnings of the beneficiary or
his breadwinner, the wage of the skilled 1. In the case of a periodical payment to
manual male employee, the benefit and any which this Article applies, the rate of the
family allowances shall be calculated on the benefit, increased by the amount of any family
same time basis. allowances payable during the contingency,
shall be such as to attain, in respect of the
5. For the other beneficiaries the benefit shall
contingency in question, for the standard
bear a reasonable relation to the benefit for the
beneficiary indicated in the Schedule
standard beneficiary.
appended to this Part, at least the percentage
6. For the purpose of this Article, a skilled
indicated therein of the total of the wage of an
manual male employee shall be:
ordinary adult male labourer and of the amount
(a) a fitter or turner in the manufacture of of any family allowances payable to a person
machinery other than electrical machinery; protected with the same family responsibilities
or as the standard beneficiary.
(b) a person deemed typical of skilled labour 2. The wage of the ordinary adult male
selected in accordance with the provisions labourer, the benefit and any family
of the following paragraph; or allowances shall be calculated on the same
(c) a person whose earnings are such as to time basis.
be equal to or greater than the earnings of 3. For the other beneficiaries, the benefit
75 per cent. of all the persons protected, shall bear a reasonable relation to the benefit
such earnings to be determined on the for the standard beneficiary.
basis of annual or shorter periods as may
4. For the purpose of this Article, the ordinary
be prescribed; or
adult male labourer shall be:
(d) a person whose earnings are equal to 125
(a) a person deemed typical of unskilled
per cent. of the average earnings of all the
labour in the manufacture of machinery
persons protected.
other than electrical machinery; or
7. The person deemed typical of skilled
(b) a person deemed typical of unskilled
labour for the purposes of subparagraph (b) of
labour selected in accordance with the
the preceding paragraph shall be a person
provisions of the following paragraph.
employed in the major group of economic
5. The person deemed typical of unskilled
activities with the largest number of
labour for the purpose of subparagraph (b) of
economically active male persons protected in
the preceding paragraph shall be a person
the contingency in question, or of the
employed in the major group of economic
breadwinners of the persons protected, as the
activities with the largest number of
case may be, in the division comprising the
economically active male persons protected in
largest number of such persons or
the contingency in question, or of the
breadwinners; for this purpose, the
breadwinners of the persons protected, as the
international standard industrial classification
case may be, in the division comprising the
of all economic activities, adopted by the
largest number of such persons or
Economic and Social Council of the United
breadwinners; for this purpose the
Nations at its
international standard industrial classification
Seventh Session on 27 August 1948, as
of all economic activities, adopted by the
amended up to 1958 and reproduced in the
54

--- Page 61 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Economic and Social Council of the United (c) the total of the benefit and any other
Nations at its means, after deduction of the substantial
Seventh Session on 27 August 1948, as amounts referred to in subparagraph (b),
amended up to 1958 and reproduced in the shall be sufficient to maintain the family of
Annex to this Convention, or such the beneficiary in health and decency, and
classification as at any time further amended, shall be not less than the corresponding
shall be used. benefit calculated in accordance with the
requirements of Article 27;
6. Where the rate of benefit varies by region,
the ordinary adult male labourer may be (d) the provisions of subparagraph (c) shall be
determined for each region in accordance with deemed to be satisfied if the total amount
paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Article. of benefits paid under the Part concerned
exceeds by at least 30 per cent. the total
7. The wage of the ordinary adult male
amounts of benefits which would be
labourer shall be determined on the basis of
obtained by applying the provisions of
the rates of wages for normal hours of work
Article 27 and the provisions of:
fixed by collective agreements, by or in
pursuance of national legislation, where (i) Article 9, paragraph 1, subparagraph (b)
applicable, or by custom, including cost-of- for Part II;
living allowances if any; where such rates differ (ii) Article 16, paragraph 1, subparagraph (b)
by region but paragraph 6 of this Article is not for Part III;
applied, the median rate shall be taken. (iii) Article 22, paragraph 1, subparagraph (b)
for Part IV.
Article 28
In the case of a periodical payment to which Article 29
this Article applies: 1. The rates of cash benefits currently payable
(a) the rate of the benefit shall be determined pursuant to Article 10, Article 17 and Article 23
according to a prescribed scale or a scale shall be reviewed following substantial changes
fixed by the competent public authority in in the general level of earnings or substantial
conformity with prescribed rules; changes in the cost of living.
(b) such rate may be reduced only to the 2. Each Member shall include the findings of
extent by which the other means of the such reviews in its reports upon the application
family of the beneficiary exceed of this Convention submitted under Article 22
prescribed substantial amounts or of the Constitution of the International Labour
substantial amounts fixed by the Organisation, and shall specify any action
competent public authority in conformity taken.
with prescribed rules;
SCHEDULE TO PART V: PERIODICAL PAYMENTS TO STANDARD BENEFICIARIES
Part Contingency Standard beneficiary Percentage
II Invalidity Man with wife and two children 50
III Old age Man with wife of pensionable age 45
IV Death of breadwinner Widow with two children 45
2. A contributory invalidity, old-age or
PART VI. COMMON PROVISIONS
survivors’ benefit may be reduced where the
Article 30
earnings of the beneficiary exceed a
National legislation shall provide for the prescribed amount; the reduction in benefit
maintenance of rights in course of acquisition shall not exceed the earnings.
in respect of contributory invalidity, old-age
3. A non-contributory invalidity, old-age or
and survivors’ benefits under prescribed
survivors’ benefit may be reduced where the
conditions.
earnings of the beneficiary or his other means
Article 31 or the two taken together exceed a prescribed
amount.
1. The payment of invalidity, old-age or
survivors’ benefit may be suspended, under Article 32
prescribed conditions, where the beneficiary is
1. A benefit to which a person protected
engaged in gainful activity.
would otherwise be entitled in compliance with
55

--- Page 62 ---
Building social protection systems
any of Parts II to IV of this Convention may be 2. Procedures shall be prescribed which
suspended to such extent as may be permit the claimant to be represented or
prescribed: assisted, where appropriate, by a qualified
(a) as long as the person concerned is absent person of his choice or by a delegate of an
from the territory of the Member, except, organisation representative of persons
under prescribed conditions, in the case of protected.
a contributory benefit;
Article 35
(b) as long as the person concerned is
1. Each Member shall accept general
maintained at public expense or at the
responsibility for the due provision of the
expense of a social security institution or
benefits provided in compliance with this
service;
Convention and shall take all measures
(c) where the person concerned has made a required for this purpose.
fraudulent claim;
2. Each Member shall accept general
(d) where the contingency has been caused responsibility for the proper administration of
by a criminal offence committed by the the institutions and services concerned in the
person concerned; application of this Convention.
(e) where the contingency has been wilfully
Article 36
caused by the serious misconduct of the
person concerned; Where the administration is not entrusted to an
institution regulated by the public authorities or
(f) in appropriate cases, where the person
to a government department responsible to a
concerned, without good reason, neglects
legislature, representatives of the persons
to make use of the medical or rehabilitation
protected shall participate in the management
services placed at his disposal or fails to
under prescribed conditions; national
comply with rules prescribed for verifying
legislation may likewise decide as to the
the occurrence or continuance of the
participation of representatives of employers
contingency or for the conduct of
and of the public authorities.
beneficiaries; and
(g) in the case of survivors’ benefit for a PART VII. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
widow, as long as she is living with a man Article 37
as his wife.
Any Member whose legislation protects
2. In the case and within the limits employees may, as necessary, exclude from
prescribed, part of the benefit otherwise due the application of this convention:
shall be paid to the dependants of the person
(a) persons whose employment is of a casual
concerned.
nature;
Article 33 (b) members of the employer’s family living in
1. If a person protected is or would otherwise his house, in respect of their work for him;
be eligible simultaneously for more than one of (c) other categories of employees, which shall
the benefits provided for in this Convention, not exceed in number 10 per cent. of all
these benefits may be reduced under employees other than those excluded
prescribed conditions and within prescribed under subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this
limits; the person protected shall receive in Article.
total at least the amount of the most favourable
benefit. Article 38
2. If a person protected is or would otherwise 1. Any Member whose legislation protects
be eligible for a benefit provided for in this employees may, by a declaration
Convention and is in receipt of another social accompanying its ratification, temporarily
security cash benefit for the same exclude from the application of this Convention
contingency, other than a family benefit, the the employees in the sector comprising
benefit under this Convention may be reduced agricultural occupations who are not yet
or suspended under prescribed conditions and protected by its legislation at the time of the
within prescribed limits, subject to the part of ratification.
the benefit which is reduced or suspended not 2. Each Member which has made a
exceeding the other benefit. declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article
shall indicate in its reports upon the application
Article 34 of this Convention submitted under Article 22
1. Every claimant shall have a right of appeal of the Constitution of the International Labour
in the case of refusal of benefit or complaint as Organisation to what extent effect is given and
to its quality or quantity. what effect is proposed to be given to the
56

--- Page 63 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
provisions of the Convention in respect of the (b) covers a percentage of the economically
employees in the sector comprising active population which is at least ten points
agricultural occupations and any progress higher than that required by Article 9,
which may have been made with a view to the paragraph 1, subparagraph (b), Article 16,
application of the Convention to such paragraph 1, subparagraph (b), and
employees or, where there is no change to Article 22, paragraph 1, subparagraph (b), or
report, furnish all the appropriate explanations. complies with Article 9, paragraph 1,
3. Each Member which has made a subparagraph (c), Article 16, paragraph 1,
declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article subparagraph (c), and Article 22,
shall increase the number of employees paragraph 1, subparagraph (c), and
protected in the agricultural sector to the extent (c) secures in respect of at least two of the
and with the speed that the circumstances contingencies covered by Parts II, III and
permit. IV benefits of an amount corresponding to
a percentage at least five points higher
Article 39
than the percentages specified in the
1. Any Member which ratifies this Schedule appended to Part V,
Convention may, by a declaration
may take advantage of the provisions of the
accompanying its ratification, exclude from the
following paragraph.
application of the Convention:
2. Such Member may:
(a) seafarers, including sea fishermen,
(a) substitute, for the purposes of Article 11,
(b) public servants,
paragraph 2, subparagraph (b), and
where these categories are protected by Article 24, paragraph 2, subparagraph (b), a
special schemes which provide in the period of five years for the period of three years
aggregate benefits at least equivalent to those specified therein;
required by this Convention.
(b) determine the beneficiaries of survivors’
2. Where a declaration under paragraph 1 of benefits in a manner which is different from
this Article is in force, the Member may that required by Article 21, but which
exclude the persons belonging to the category ensures that the total number of
or categories excluded from the application of beneficiaries does not fall short of the
the Convention from the number of persons number of beneficiaries which would result
taken into account when calculating the from the application of Article 21.
percentages specified in paragraph 1,
3. Each Member which has taken advantage
subparagraph (b), and paragraph 2,
of the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article
subparagraph (b), of Article 9; paragraph 1,
shall indicate in its reports upon the application
subparagraph (b), and para-graph 2,
of this Convention submitted under Article 22 of
subparagraph (b), of Article 16; paragraph 1,
the Constitution of the International Labour
subparagraph (b), and para-graph 2, subpara-
Organisation the position of its law and practice
graph (b), of Article 22; and subparagraph (c)
as regards the matters dealt with in that
of Article 37.
paragraph and any progress made towards
3. Any Member which has made a complete application of the terms of the
declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article Convention.
may subsequently notify the Director-General
of the International Labour Office that it Article 42
accepts the obligations of this Convention in 1. A Member which:
respect of a category or categories excluded (a) has accepted the obligations of this
at the time of its ratification. Convention in respect of Parts II, III and IV,
and
Article 40
(b) covers a percentage of the economically
If a person protected is entitled, under national
active population which is at least ten
legislation, in case of death of the
points higher than that required by
breadwinner, to periodical benefits other than
Article 9, paragraph 1, subparagraph (b),
a survivors’ benefit, such periodical benefits
Article 16, paragraph 1, subparagraph (b),
may be assimilated to the survivors’ benefit for
and Article 22, paragraph 1, subpara-
the application of this Convention.
graph (b), or complies with Article 9,
Article 41 paragraph 1, subparagraph (c), Article 16,
1. A Member which: paragraph 1, subparagraph (c), and Article
22, para-graph 1, subparagraph (c),
(a) has accepted the obligations of this
Convention in respect of Parts II, III and IV, may derogate from particular provisions of
and Parts II, III and IV: on condition that the total
57

--- Page 64 ---
Building social protection systems
amount of benefits paid under the Part 1933, and the Survivors’ Insurance
concerned shall be at least equal to 110 per (Agriculture) Convention, 1933.
cent. of the total amount which would be
Article 45
obtained by applying all the provisions of that
Part. 1. In conformity with the provisions of
Article 75 of the Social Security (Minimum
2. Each Member which has made such a
Standards) Convention, 1952, the following
derogation shall indicate in its reports upon the
Parts of that Convention and the relevant
application of this Convention submitted under
provisions of other Parts thereof shall cease to
Article 22 of the Constitution of the
apply to any Member having ratified this
International Labour Organisation the position
Convention as from the date at which this
of its law and practice as regards such
Convention is binding on that Member and no
derogation and any progress made towards
declaration under Article 38 is in force:
complete application of the terms of the
Convention. (a) Part IX where the Member has accepted
the obligations of this Convention in
Article 43 respect of Part II;
This Convention shall not apply to: (b) Part V where the Member has accepted
(a) contingencies which occurred before the the obligations of this Convention in
coming into force of the relevant Part of the respect of Part III;
Convention for the Member concerned; (c) Part X where the Member has accepted
(b) benefits in contingencies occurring after the obligations of this Convention in
the coming into force of the relevant Part respect of Part IV.
of the Convention for the Member 2. Acceptance of the obligations of this
concerned in so far as the rights to such Convention shall, on condition that no
benefits are derived from periods declaration under Article 38 is in force, be
preceding that date. deemed to constitute acceptance of the
obligations of the following parts of the Social
Article 44
Security (Minimum Standards) Convention,
1. This Convention revises, on the terms set
1952, and the relevant provisions of other
forth in this Article, the Old-Age Insurance
Parts thereof, for the purpose of Article 2 of the
(Industry, etc.) Convention 1933, the Old-Age
said Convention:
Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1933, the
(a) Part IX where the Member has accepted
Invalidity Insurance (Industry, etc.) Convention,
the obligations of this Convention in
1933, the Invalidity Insurance (Agriculture)
respect of Part II;
Convention, 1933, the Survivors’ Insurance
(Industry, etc.) Convention, 1933, and the (b) Part V where the Member has accepted
Survivors’ Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, the obligations of this Convention in
1933. respect of Part III;
2. The legal effect of the acceptance of the (c) Part X where the Member has accepted
obligations of this Convention by a Member the obligations of this Convention in
which is a party to one or more of the respect of Part IV.
Conventions which have been revised, when
Article 46
this Convention shall have come into force,
If any Convention which may be adopted
shall be as follows for that Member:
subsequently by the Conference concerning
(a) acceptance of the obligations of Part II of
any subject or subjects dealt with in this
the Convention shall, ipso jure, involve the
Convention so provides, such provisions of
immediate denunciation of the Invalidity
this Convention as may be specified in the said
Insurance (Industry, etc.) Convention,
Convention shall cease to apply to any
1933, and the Invalidity Insurance
Member having ratified the said Convention as
(Agriculture) Convention, 1933;
from the date at which the said Convention
(b) acceptance of the obligations of Part III of comes into force for that Member.
the Convention shall, ipso jure, involve the
immediate denunciation of the Old-Age PART VIII. FINAL PROVISIONS
Insurance (Industry, etc.) Convention, Article 47
1933, and the Old-Age Insurance The formal ratifications of this Convention shall
(Agriculture) Convention, 1933; be communicated to the Director-General of
(c) acceptance of the obligations of Part IV of the International Labour Office for registration.
the Convention shall, ipso jure, involve the
immediate denunciation of the Survivors’
Insurance (Industry, etc.) Convention,
58

--- Page 65 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Article 48 Members of the Organisation to the date upon
1. This Convention shall be binding only which the Convention will come into force.
upon those Members of the International
Article 51
Labour Organisation whose ratifications have
The Director-General of the International
been registered with the Director-General.
Labour Office shall communicate to the
2. It shall come into force twelve months after
Secretary-General of the United Nations for
the date on which the ratifications of two
registration in accordance with Article 102 of
Members have been registered with the
the Charter of the United Nations full
Director-General.
particulars of all ratifications and acts of
3. Thereafter, this Convention shall come denunciation registered by him in accordance
into force for any Member twelve months after with the provisions of the preceding Articles.
the date on which its ratification has been
registered. Article 52
At such times as it may consider necessary the
Article 49
Governing Body of the International Labour
1. A Member which has ratified this Office shall present to the General Conference
Convention may, after the expiration of ten a report on the working of this Convention and
years from the date on which the Convention shall examine the desirability of placing on the
first comes into force, denounce the agenda of the Conference the question of its
Convention or any one or more of Parts II to IV revision in whole or in part.
thereof by an act communicated to the
Director-General of the International Labour Article 53
Office for registration. Such denunciation shall 1. Should the Conference adopt a new
not take effect until one year after the date on Convention revising this Convention in whole
which it is registered. or in part, then, unless the new Convention
2. Each Member which has ratified this otherwise provides:
Convention and which does not, within the (a) the ratification by a Member of the new
year following the expiration of the period of revising Convention shall ipso jure involve
ten years mentioned in the preceding the immediate denunciation of this
paragraph, exercise the right of denunciation Convention, notwithstanding the
provided for in this Article, will be bound for provisions of Article 49 above, if and when
another period of ten years and, thereafter, the new revising Convention shall have
may denounce this Convention or any one or come into force;
more of Parts II to IV thereof at the expiration (b) as from the date when the new revising
of each period of ten years under the terms Convention comes into force this
provided for in this Article. Convention shall cease to be open to
ratification by the Members.
Article 50
2. This Convention shall in any case remain
1. The Director-General of the International
in force in its actual form and content for those
Labour Office shall notify all Members of the
Members which have ratified it but have not
International Labour Organisation of the
ratified the revising Convention.
registration of all ratifications and
denunciations communicated to him by the Article 54
Members of the Organisation.
The English and French versions of the text of
2. When notifying the Members of the this Convention are equally authoritative.
Organisation of the registration of the second
ANNEX: International standard industrial
ratification communicated to him, the Director-
classification of all economic activities
General shall draw the attention of the
(revised up to 1969)
59

--- Page 66 ---
Building social protection systems
C130 – Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, 1969
Preamble leaving age or under 15 years of age;
The General Conference of the International and
Labour Organisation, (ii) a child under a prescribed age higher
Having been convened at Geneva by the than that specified in clause (i) of this
Governing Body of the International Labour subparagraph and who is an
Office, and having met in its Fifty-third Session apprentice or student or has a chronic
on 4 June 1969, and illness or infirmity disabling him for any
gainful activity, under prescribed
Having decided upon the adoption of certain
conditions: Provided that this
proposals with regard to the revision of the
requirement shall be deemed to be
Sickness Insurance (Industry) Convention,
met where national legislation defines
1927, and the Sickness Insurance (Agriculture)
the term so as to cover any child under
Convention, 1927, which is the fifth item on the
an age appreciably higher than that
agenda of the session, and
specified in clause (i) of this
Having determined that these proposals shall
subparagraph;
take the form of an international Convention,
(h) the term standard beneficiary means a
adopts this twenty-fifth day of June of the year
man with a wife and two children;
one thousand nine hundred and sixty-nine the
(i) the term qualifying period means a
following Convention, which may be cited as
period of contribution, or a period of
the Medical Care and Sickness Benefits
employment, or a period of residence, or
Convention, 1969:
any combination thereof, as may be
PART I. GENERAL PROVISIONS prescribed;
Article 1 (j) the term sickness means any morbid
In this Convention: condition, whatever its cause;
(a) the term legislation includes any social (k) the term medical care includes allied
security rules as well as laws and benefits.
regulations; Article 2
(b) the term prescribed means determined 1. A Member whose economy and medical
by or in virtue of national legislation; facilities are insufficiently developed may avail
(c) the term industrial undertaking includes itself, by a declaration accompanying its
all undertakings in the following branches ratification, of the temporary exceptions
of economic activity: mining and quarrying; provided for in Article 1, subparagraph (g),
manufacturing; construction; electricity, clause (i); Article 11; Article 14; Article 20; and
gas and water; and transport, storage and Article 26, paragraph 2. Any such declaration
communication; shall state the reason for such exceptions.
(d) the term residence means ordinary 2. Each Member which has made a
residence in the territory of the Member declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article
and the term resident means a person shall include in its reports upon the application
ordinarily resident in the territory of the of this Convention submitted under article 22
Member; of the Constitution of the International Labour
Organisation a statement in respect of each
(e) the term dependent refers to a state of
exception of which it avails itself:
dependency which is presumed to exist in
prescribed cases; (a) that its reason for doing so subsists; or
(f) the term wife means a wife who is (b) that it renounces its right to avail itself of
dependent on her husband; the exception in question as from a stated
date.
(g) the term child covers:
3. Each Member which has made a
(i) a child under school-leaving age or
declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article
under 15 years of age, whichever is
shall, as appropriate to the terms of such
the higher: Provided that a Member
declaration and as circumstances permit--
which has made a declaration under
Article 2 may, while such declaration is (a) increase the number of persons protected;
in force, apply the Convention as if the (b) extend the range of medical care provided;
term covered a child under school- (c) extend the duration of sickness benefit.
60

--- Page 67 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Article 3 account when calculating the percentage
1. Any Member whose legislation protects specified in Article 10, subparagraph (c).
employees may, by a declaration 3. Any Member which has made a
accompanying its ratification, temporarily declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article
exclude from the application of this Convention may subsequently notify the Director-General
the employees in the sector comprising of the International Labour Office that it
agricultural occupations who, at the time of the accepts the obligations of this Convention in
ratification, are not yet protected by legislation respect of a category or categories excluded
which is in conformity with the standards of this at the time of its ratification.
Convention.
Article 5
2. Each Member which has made a
Any Member whose legislation protects
declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article
employees may, as necessary, exclude from
shall indicate in its reports upon the application
the application of this Convention--
of this Convention submitted under article 22
of the Constitution of the International Labour (a) persons whose employment is of a casual
Organisation to what extent effect is given and nature;
what effect is proposed to be given to the (b) members of the employer’s family living in
provisions of the Convention in respect of the his house, in respect of their work for him;
employees in the sector comprising (c) other categories of employees, which shall
agricultural occupations and any progress not exceed in number 10 per cent of all
which may have been made with a view to the employees other than those excluded
application of the Convention to such under subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this
employees or, where there is no change to Article.
report, shall furnish all the appropriate
explanations. Article 6
3. Each Member which has made a For the purpose of compliance with this
declaration under paragraph 1 of this Article Convention, a Member may take account of
shall increase the number of employees protection effected by means of insurance
protected in the sector comprising agricultural which, although not made compulsory by its
occupations to the extent and with the speed legislation at the time of ratification for the
that the circumstances permit. persons to be protected:
Article 4 (a) is supervised by the public authorities or
1. Any Member which ratifies this administered, in accordance with
Convention may, by a declaration prescribed standards, by joint operation of
accompanying its ratification, exclude from the employers and workers;
application of the Convention: (b) covers a substantial proportion of the
(a) seafarers, including sea fishermen, persons whose earnings do not exceed
those of the skilled manual male employee
(b) public servants,
defined in Article 22, paragraph 6; and
where these categories are protected by
(c) complies, in conjunction with other forms
special schemes which provide in the
of protection, where appropriate, with the
aggregate benefits at least equivalent to those
provisions of the Convention.
required by this Convention.
Article 7
2. Where a declaration under paragraph 1 of
this Article is in force, the Member may-- The contingencies covered shall include--
(a) exclude the persons belonging to the (a) need for medical care of a curative nature
category or categories excluded from the and, under prescribed conditions, need for
application of the Convention from the medical care of a preventive nature;
number of persons taken into account (b) incapacity for work resulting from sickness
when calculating the percentages and involving suspension of earnings, as
specified in Article 5, subparagraph (c); defined by national legislation.
Article 10, subparagraph (b); Article 11;
PART II. MEDICAL CARE
Article 19, subparagraph (b); and Article
20; Article 8
(b) exclude the persons belonging to the Each Member shall secure to the persons
category or categories excluded from the protected, subject to prescribed conditions, the
application of the Convention, as well as provision of medical care of a curative or
the wives and children of such persons, preventive nature in respect of the contingency
from the number of persons taken into referred to in subparagraph (a) of Article 7.
61

--- Page 68 ---
Building social protection systems
Article 9 (d) hospitalisation where necessary;
The medical care referred to in Article 8 shall (e) dental care, as prescribed; and
be afforded with a view to maintaining, (f) medical rehabilitation, including the
restoring or improving the health of the person supply, maintenance and renewal of
protected and his ability to work and to attend prosthetic and orthopaedic appliances, as
to his personal needs. prescribed.
Article 10 Article 14
The persons protected in respect of the Where a declaration made in virtue of Article 2
contingency referred to in subparagraph (a) of is in force, the medical care referred to in
Article 7 shall comprise: Article 8 shall comprise at least--
(a) all employees, including apprentices, and (a) general practitioner care, including,
the wives and children of such employees; wherever possible, domiciliary visiting;
or
(b) specialist care at hospitals for in-patients
(b) prescribed classes of the economically and out-patients, and, wherever possible,
active population, constituting not less such specialist care as may be available
than 75 per cent of the whole economically outside hospitals;
active population, and the wives and
(c) the necessary pharmaceutical supplies on
children of persons in the said classes; or
prescription by medical or other qualified
(c) prescribed classes of residents practitioners; and
constituting not less than 75 per cent of all
(d) hospitalisation where necessary.
residents.
Article 15
Article 11
Where the legislation of a Member makes the
Where a declaration made in virtue of Article 2
right to the medical care referred to in Article 8
is in force, the persons protected in respect of
conditional upon the fulfilment of a qualifying
the contingency referred to in subparagraph
period by the person protected or by his
(a) of Article 7 shall comprise:
breadwinner, the conditions governing the
(a) prescribed classes of employees, qualifying period shall be such as not to
constituting not less than 25 per cent of all deprive of the right to benefit persons who
employees, and the wives and children of normally belong to the categories of persons
employees in the said classes; or protected.
(b) prescribed classes of employees in
Article 16
industrial undertakings, constituting not less
than 50 per cent of all employees in 1. The medical care referred to in Article 8
industrial undertakings, and the wives and shall be provided throughout the contingency.
children of employees in the said classes. 2. Where a beneficiary ceases to belong to
the categories of persons protected, further
Article 12
entitlement to medical care for a case of
Persons who are in receipt of a social security sickness which started while he belonged to
benefit for invalidity, old age, death of the the said categories may be limited to a
breadwinner or unemployment, and, where prescribed period which shall not be less than
appropriate, the wives and children of such 26 weeks: Provided that the medical care shall
persons, shall continue to be protected, under not cease while the beneficiary continues to
prescribed conditions, in respect of the receive a sickness benefit.
contingency referred to in subparagraph (a) of
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of
Article 7.
paragraph 2 of this Article, the duration of
Article 13 medical care shall be extended for prescribed
diseases recognised as entailing prolonged
The medical care referred to in Article 8 shall
care.
comprise at least:
(a) general practitioner care, including Article 17
domiciliary visiting; Where the legislation of a Member requires the
(b) specialist care at hospitals for in-patients beneficiary or his breadwinner to share in the
and out-patients, and such specialist care cost of the medical care referred to in Article 8,
as may be available outside hospitals; the rules concerning such cost sharing shall be
(c) the necessary pharmaceutical supplies on so designed as to avoid hardship and not to
prescription by medical or other qualified prejudice the effectiveness of medical and
practitioners; social protection.
62

--- Page 69 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
PART III. SICKNESS BENEFIT of any family allowances payable to a person
Article 18 protected with the same family responsibilities
as the standard beneficiary.
Each Member shall secure to the persons
protected, subject to prescribed conditions, the 2. The previous earnings of the beneficiary
provision of sickness benefit in respect of the shall be calculated according to prescribed
contingency referred to in subparagraph (b) of rules, and, where the persons protected are
Article 7. arranged in classes according to their
earnings, their previous earnings may be
Article 19 calculated from the basic earnings of the
The persons protected in respect of the classes to which they belonged.
contingency specified in subparagraph (b) of 3. A maximum limit may be prescribed for the
Article 7 shall comprise: rate of the benefit or for the earnings taken into
(a) all employees, including apprentices; or account for the calculation of the benefit,
(b) prescribed classes of the economically provided that the maximum limit is fixed in
active population, constituting not less such a way that the provisions of paragraph 1
than 75 per cent of the whole economically of this Article are complied with where the
active population; or previous earnings of the beneficiary are equal
to or lower than the wage of a skilled manual
(c) all residents whose means during the
male employee.
contingency do not exceed limits
prescribed in such a manner as to comply 4. The previous earnings of the beneficiary,
with the requirements of Article 24. the wage of the skilled manual male employee,
the benefit and any family allowances shall be
Article 20 calculated on the same time basis.
Where a declaration made in virtue of Article 2 5. For the other beneficiaries the benefit shall
is in force, the persons protected in respect of bear a reasonable relation to the benefit for the
the contingency referred to in subparagraph standard beneficiary.
(b) of Article 7 shall comprise: 6. For the purpose of this Article, a skilled
(a) prescribed classes of employees, manual male employee shall be:
constituting not less than 25 per cent of all (a) a fitter or turner in the manufacture of
employees; or machinery other than electrical machinery;
(b) prescribed classes of employees in or
industrial undertakings, constituting not (b) a person deemed typical of skilled labour
less than 50 per cent of all employees in selected in accordance with the provisions
industrial undertakings. of the following paragraph; or
Article 21 (c) a person whose earnings are such as to
be equal to or greater than the earnings of
The sickness benefit referred to in Article 18
75 per cent of all the persons protected,
shall be a periodical payment and shall:
such earnings to be determined on the
(a) where employees or classes of the
basis of annual or shorter periods as may
economically active population are
be prescribed; or
protected, be calculated in such a manner
(d) a person whose earnings are equal to 125
as to comply either with the requirements
per cent of the average earnings of all the
of Article 22 or with the requirements of
persons protected.
Article 23;
7. The person deemed typical of skilled
(b) where all residents whose means during
labour for the purposes of subparagraph (b) of
the contingency do not exceed prescribed
the preceding paragraph shall be a person
limits are protected, be calculated in such
employed in the major group of economic
a manner as to comply with the
activities with the largest number of
requirements of Article 24.
economically active male persons protected in
Article 22 the contingency referred to in subparagraph
1. In the case of a periodical payment to (b) of Article 7 in the division comprising the
which this Article applies, the rate of the largest number of such persons; for this
benefit, increased by the amount of any family purpose, the International Standard Industrial
allowances payable during the contingency, Classification of All Economic Activities
shall be such as to attain for the standard adopted by the Economic and Social Council
beneficiary, in respect of the contingency of the United Nations at its Seventh Session
referred to in subparagraph (b) of Article 7, at on 27 August 1948, as amended up to 1968
least 60 per cent of the total of the previous and reproduced in the Annex to this
earnings of the beneficiary and of the amount
63

--- Page 70 ---
Building social protection systems
Convention, or such classification as at any Convention, or such classification as at any
time further amended, shall be used. time further amended, shall be used.
8. Where the rate of benefit varies by region, 6. Where the rate of benefit varies by region,
the skilled manual male employee may be the ordinary adult male labourer may be
determined for each region in accordance with determined for each region in accordance with
paragraphs 6 and 7 of this Article. paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Article.
9. The wage of the skilled manual male 7. The wage of the ordinary adult male
employee shall be determined on the basis of labourer shall be determined on the basis of
the rates of wages for normal hours of work the rates of wages for normal hours of work
fixed by collective agreements, by or in fixed by collective agreements, by or in
pursuance of national legislation, where pursuance of national legislation, where
applicable, or by custom, including cost-of- applicable, or by custom, including cost-of-
living allowances if any; where such rates differ living allowances, if any; where such rates
by region but paragraph 8 of this Article is not differ by region but paragraph 6 of this Article
applied, the median rate shall be taken. is not applied, the median rate shall be taken.
Article 23 Article 24
1. In the case of a periodical payment to In the case of a periodical payment to which
which this Article applies, the rate of the this Article applies--
benefit, increased by the amount of any family (a) the rate of the benefit shall be determined
allowances payable during the contingency, according to a prescribed scale or a scale
shall be such as to attain for the standard fixed by the competent public authority in
beneficiary, in respect of the contingency conformity with prescribed rules;
referred to in subparagraph (b) of Article 7, at
(b) such rate may be reduced only to the
least 60 per cent of the total of the wage of an
extent by which the other means of the
ordinary adult male labourer and of the amount
family of the beneficiary exceed
of any family allowances payable to a person
prescribed substantial amounts or
protected with the same family responsibilities
substantial amounts fixed by the
as the standard beneficiary.
competent public authority in conformity
2. The wage of the ordinary adult male with prescribed rules;
labourer, the benefit and any family
(c) the total of the benefit and any other
allowances shall be calculated on the same
means, after deduction of the substantial
time basis.
amounts referred to in subparagraph (b),
3. For the other beneficiaries, the benefit shall be sufficient to maintain the family of
shall bear a reasonable relation to the benefit the beneficiary in health and decency, and
for the standard beneficiary. shall be not less than the corresponding
4. For the purpose of this Article, the ordinary benefit calculated in accordance with the
adult male labourer shall be: requirements of Article 23;
(a) a person deemed typical of unskilled (d) the provisions of subparagraph (c) shall be
labour in the manufacture of machinery deemed to be satisfied if the total amount
other than electrical machinery; or of sickness benefits paid under this
(b) a person deemed typical of unskilled Convention exceeds by at least 30 per
labour selected in accordance with the cent the total amount of benefits which
provisions of the following paragraph. would be obtained by applying the
provisions of Article 23 and the provisions
5. The person deemed typical of unskilled
of subparagraph (b) of Article 19.
labour for the purpose of subparagraph (b) of
the preceding paragraph shall be a person Article 25
employed in the major group of economic
Where the legislation of a Member makes the
activities with the largest number of
right to the sickness benefit referred to in
economically active male persons protected in
Article 18 conditional upon the fulfilment of a
the contingency referred to in subparagraph
qualifying period by the person protected, the
(b) of Article 7 in the division comprising the
conditions governing the qualifying period
largest number of such persons; for this
shall be such as not to deprive of the right to
purpose, the International Standard Industrial
benefit persons who normally belong to the
Classification of All Economic Activities
categories of persons protected.
adopted by the Economic and Social Council
of the United Nations at its Seventh Session Article 26
on 27 August 1948, as amended up to 1968 1. The sickness benefit referred to in
and reproduced in the Annex to this Article 18 shall be granted throughout the
64

--- Page 71 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
contingency: Provided that the grant of benefit occurrence or continuance of the
may be limited to not less than 52 weeks in contingency or for the conduct of
each case of incapacity, as prescribed. beneficiaries;
2. Where a declaration made in virtue of (g) in the case of the sickness benefit referred
Article 2 is in force, the grant of the sickness to in Article 18, as long as the person
benefit referred to in Article 18 may be limited concerned is maintained at public expense
to not less than 26 weeks in each case of or at the expense of a social security
incapacity, as prescribed. institution or service; and
3. Where the legislation of a Member (h) in the case of the sickness benefit referred
provides that sickness benefit is not payable to in Article 18, as long as the person
for an initial period of suspension of earnings, concerned is in receipt of another social
such period shall not exceed three days. security cash benefit, other than a family
benefit, subject to the part of the benefit
Article 27
which is suspended not exceeding the
1. In the case of the death of a person who other benefit.
was in receipt of, or qualified for, the sickness
2. In the cases and within the limits
benefit referred to in Article 18, a funeral
prescribed, part of the benefit otherwise due
benefit shall, under prescribed conditions, be
shall be paid to the dependants of the person
paid to his survivors, to any other dependants
concerned.
or to the person who has borne the expense of
Article 29
the funeral.
1. Every claimant shall have a right of appeal
2. A member may derogate from the
in the case of refusal of the benefit or
provision of paragraph 1 of this Article where:
complaint as to its quality or quantity.
(a) it has accepted the obligations of Part IV
2. Where in the application of this
of the Invalidity, Old-Age and Survivors’
Convention a government department
Benefits Convention, 1967;
responsible to a legislature is entrusted with
(b) it provides in its legislation for cash
the administration of medical care, the right of
sickness benefit at a rate of not less than
appeal provided for in paragraph 1 of this
80 per cent of the earnings of the persons
Article may be replaced by a right to have a
protected; and
complaint concerning the refusal of medical
(c) the majority of persons protected are care or the quality of the care received
covered by voluntary insurance which is investigated by the appropriate authority.
supervised by the public authorities and
which provides a funeral grant. Article 30
1. Each Member shall accept general
PART IV. COMMON PROVISIONS
responsibility for the due provision of the
Article 28 benefits provided in compliance with this
1. A benefit to which a person protected Convention and shall take all measures
would otherwise be entitled in compliance with required for this purpose.
this Convention may be suspended to such 2. Each Member shall accept general
extent as may be prescribed-- responsibility for the proper administration of
(a) as long as the person concerned is absent the institutions and services concerned in the
from the territory of the Member; application of this Convention.
(b) as long as the person concerned is being Article 31
indemnified for the contingency by a third Where the administration is not entrusted to an
party, to the extent of the indemnity; institution regulated by the public authorities or
(c) where the person concerned has made a to a government department responsible to a
fraudulent claim; legislature:
(d) where the contingency has been caused (a) representatives of the persons protected
by a criminal offence committed by the shall participate in the management under
person concerned; prescribed conditions;
(e) where the contingency has been caused (b) national legislation shall, where
by the serious and wilful misconduct of the appropriate, provide for the participation of
person concerned; representatives of employers;
(f) where the person concerned, without good (c) national legislation may likewise decide as
cause, neglects to make use of the to the participation of representatives of
medical care or the rehabilitation services the public authorities.
placed at his disposal, or fails to comply
with rules prescribed for verifying the
65

--- Page 72 ---
Building social protection systems
Article 32 Article 34
Each Member shall, within its territory, assure This Convention shall not apply to:
to non-nationals who normally reside or work (a) contingencies which occurred before the
there equality of treatment with its own coming into force of the Convention for the
nationals as regards the right to the benefits Member concerned;
provided for in this Convention.
(b) benefits in contingencies occurring after
Article 33 the coming into force of the Convention for
the Member concerned in so far as the
1. A Member:
rights to such benefits are derived from
(a) which has accepted the obligations of this
periods preceding that date.
Convention without availing itself of the
exceptions and exclusions provided for in PART V. FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 2 and Article 3, Article 35
(b) which provides over-all higher benefits This Convention revises the Sickness
than those provided in this Convention and Insurance (Industry) Convention, 1927, and
whose total relevant expenditure on the Sickness Insurance (Agriculture)
medical care and sickness benefits Convention, 1927.
amounts to at least 4 per cent of its
Article 36
national income, and
1. In conformity with the provisions of Article
(c) which satisfies at least two of the three
75 of the Social Security (Minimum Standards)
following conditions:
Convention, 1952, Part III of that Convention
(i) it covers a percentage of the and the relevant provisions of other Parts
economically active population which thereof shall cease to apply to any Member
is at least ten points higher than the having ratified this Convention as from the
percentage required by Article 10, date at which this Convention is binding on that
subparagraph (b), and by Article 19, Member and no declaration under Article 3 is
subparagraph (b), or a percentage of in force.
all residents which is at least ten points
2. Acceptance of the obligations of this
higher than the percentage required
Convention shall, on condition that no
by Article 10, subparagraph (c),
declaration under Article 3 is in force, be
(ii) it provides medical care of a curative deemed to constitute acceptance of the
and preventive nature of an obligations of Part III of the Social Security
appreciably higher standard than that (Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952, and
prescribed by Article 13, the relevant provisions of other Parts thereof,
(iii) it provides sickness benefit corres- for the purpose of Article 2 of the said
ponding to a percentage at least ten Convention.
points higher than is required by
Article 37
Articles 22 and 23,
If any Convention which may be adopted
may, after consultation with the most
subsequently by the Conference concerning
representative organisations of employers and
any subject or subjects dealt with in this
workers, where such exist, make temporary
Convention so provides, such provisions of
derogations from particular provisions of Parts
this Convention as may be specified in the said
II and III of this Convention on condition that
Convention shall cease to apply to any
such derogation shall neither fundamentally
Member having ratified the said Convention as
reduce nor impair the essential guarantees of
from the date at which the said Convention
this Convention.
comes into force for that Member.
2. Each Member which has made such a
derogation shall indicate in its reports upon the Article 38
application of this Convention submitted under The formal ratifications of this Convention shall
article 22 of the Constitution of the be communicated to the Director-General of
International Labour Organisation the position the International Labour Office for registration.
of its law and practice as regards such
derogation and any progress made towards Article 39
complete application of the terms of the 1. This Convention shall be binding only
Convention. upon those Members of the International
Labour Organisation whose ratifications have
been registered with the Director-General.
2. It shall come into force twelve months after
the date on which the ratifications of two
66

--- Page 73 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Members have been registered with the Secretary-General of the United Nations for
Director-General. registration in accordance with Article 102 of
3. Thereafter, this Convention shall come the Charter of the United Nations full
into force for any Member twelve months after particulars of all ratifications and acts of
the date on which its ratifications has been denunciation registered by him in accordance
registered. with the provisions of the preceding Articles.
Article 40 Article 43
1. A Member which has ratified this At such times as it may consider necessary the
Convention may denounce it after the Governing Body of the International Labour
expiration of ten years from the date on which Office shall present to the General Conference
the Convention first comes into force, by an act a report on the working of this Convention and
communicated to the Director-General of the shall examine the desirability of placing on the
International Labour Office for registration. agenda of the Conference the question of its
Such denunciation shall not take effect until revision in whole or in part.
one year after the date on which it is
Article 44
registered.
1. Should the Conference adopt a new
2. Each Member which has ratified this
Convention revising this Convention in whole
Convention and which does not, within the
or in part, then, unless the new Convention
year following the expiration of the period of
otherwise provides:
ten years mentioned in the preceding
(a) the ratification by a Member of the new
paragraph, exercise the right of denunciation
revising Convention shall ipso jure involve
provided for in this Article, will be bound for
the immediate denunciation of this
another period of ten years and, thereafter,
Convention, notwithstanding the
may denounce this Convention at the
provisions of Article 40 above, if and when
expiration of each period of ten years under
the new revising Convention shall have
the terms provided for in this Article.
come into force;
Article 41 (b) as from the date when the new revising
1. The Director-General of the International Convention comes into force this
Labour Office shall notify all Members of the Convention shall cease to be open to
International Labour Organisation of the ratification by the Members.
registration of all ratifications and denunciations 2. This Convention shall in any case remain
communicated to him by the Members of the in force in its actual form and content for those
Organisation. Members which have ratified it but have not
2. When notifying the Members of the ratified the revising Convention.
Organisation of the registration of the second
Article 45
ratification communicated to him, the Director-
General shall draw the attention of the The English and French versions of the text of
Members of the Organisation to the date upon this Convention are equally authoritative.
which the Convention will come into force. ANNEX: International standard industrial
classification of all economic activities
Article 42
(revised up to 1969)
The Director-General of the International
Labour Office shall communicate to the
C157 – Maintenance of Social Security Rights Convention, 1982
Preamble equality of treatment but also to the
The General Conference of the International maintenance of acquired rights and of rights in
Labour Organisation, course of acquisition, and
Having been convened at Geneva by the Considering it necessary to provide for the
Governing Body of the International Labour application of the principles of the maintenance
Office, and having met in its Sixty-eighth of rights in course of acquisition and of acquired
Session on 2 June 1982, and rights in respect of all the branches of social
security covered by the Social Security
Recalling the principles established by the
(Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952, and
Equality of Treatment (Social Security)
Convention, 1962, which relate not only to
67

--- Page 74 ---
Building social protection systems
Having decided upon the adoption of certain were living with the deceased, this
proposals with regard to maintenance of condition shall be deemed to be satisfied
migrant workers’ rights in social security in respect of persons who obtained their
(revision of Convention No. 48), which is the main support from the deceased;
fourth item on the agenda of the session, and (i) the term residence means ordinary
Having determined that these proposals shall residence;
take the form of an international Convention; (j) the term temporary residence means a
adopts this twenty-first day of June of the year temporary stay;
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-two the (k) the term periods of insurance means
following Convention, which may be cited as periods of contribution, employment,
the Maintenance of Social Security Rights occupational activity or residence which
Convention, 1982: are defined or recognised as periods of
insurance by the legislation under which
PART I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
they were completed, and such other
Article 1
periods as are regarded by that legislation
In this Convention: as equivalent to periods of insurance;
(a) the term Member means any Member of (l) the terms periods of employment and
the International Labour Organisation that periods of occupational activity mean
is bound by the Convention; periods defined or recognised as such by
(b) the term legislation includes any social the legislation under which they were
security rules as well as laws and completed and such other periods as are
regulations; regarded by that legislation as equivalent
(c) the term competent Member means the to periods of employment or periods of
Member under whose legislation the occupational activity respectively;
person concerned can claim benefit; (m) the term periods of residence means
(d) the term institution means the body or periods of residence defined or recognised
authority directly responsible for applying as such by the legislation under which they
all or part of the legislation of a Member; were completed;
(e) the term refugee has the meaning (n) the term non-contributory applies to
assigned to it in Article 1 of the Convention benefits the award of which does not
relating to the Status of Refugees of 28 depend on direct financial participation by
July 1951 and in paragraph 2 of Article 1 the persons protected or by their
of the Protocol relating to the Status of employer, or on a qualifying period of
Refugees of 31 January 1967; occupational activity, and to any scheme
which exclusively awards such benefits;
(f) the term stateless person has the
meaning assigned to it in Article 1 of the (o) the term benefits awarded under
Convention relating to the Status of transitional arrangements covers
Stateless Persons of 28 September 1954; benefits awarded to persons who are over
a given age on the date of entry into force
(g) the term members of the family means
of the legislation applicable, as well as
persons defined or recognised as such or
benefits awarded, as a transitional
as members of the household by the
measure, in consideration of events that
legislation under which benefits are
have occurred or periods that have been
awarded or provided, as appropriate, or
completed outside the current frontiers of
persons determined by mutual agreement
the territory of a Member.
between the Members concerned; where
persons are defined or recognised as Article 2
members of the family or as members of 1. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 1
the household under the relevant and of paragraph 3, subparagraph (a), of
legislation only on the condition that they Article 4, this Convention applies to those of
are living with the person concerned, this the following branches of social security for
condition shall be deemed to be satisfied which a Member has legislation in force:
in respect of persons who obtain their main (a) medical care;
support from the person concerned;
(b) sickness benefit;
(h) the term survivors means persons
(c) maternity benefit;
defined or recognised as such by the
(d) invalidity benefit;
legislation under which benefits are
awarded; where persons are defined or (e) old-age benefit;
recognised as survivors under the relevant (f) survivors’ benefit;
legislation only on the condition that they
68

--- Page 75 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
(g) employment injury benefit, namely benefit (a) the branches of social security to which
in respect of occupational injuries and they apply, having regard to the
diseases; requirement of reciprocity referred to in
(h) unemployment benefit; and Articles 6 and 10 of this Convention; these
branches shall, where the Members
(i) family benefit.
concerned have legislation covering them,
2. This Convention applies to rehabilitation
comprise at least invalidity benefits, old-
benefits provided by legislation concerning
age benefits, survivors’ benefits and
any of the branches of social security referred
pensions in respect of employment
to in paragraph 1 of this Article.
injuries, including death grants, as well as,
3. This Convention applies to all general and subject to the provisions of paragraph 1 of
special social security schemes, both Article 10 of this Convention, medical care,
contributory and non-contributory, as well as to sickness benefits, maternity benefits and
schemes consisting of obligations imposed on benefits in respect of employment injuries,
employers by legislation in respect of any other than pensions and death grants;
branch of social security referred to in
(b) the categories of persons to which they are
paragraph 1 of this Article.
applicable; these categories shall
4. This Convention does not apply to special comprise at least employees (including, as
schemes for civil servants, to special schemes appropriate, frontier workers and seasonal
for war victims or to social or medical workers), as well as the members of their
assistance schemes. families and their survivors, who are
nationals of one of the Members
Article 3
concerned or who are refugees or
1. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 1 stateless persons resident in the territory
and paragraph 3, subparagraph (b), of Article of one of these Members;
4 and of paragraph 1 of Article 9, this
(c) the arrangements for the reimbursement
Convention applies to persons who are or
of the benefits provided and other costs
have been subject to the legislation of one or
borne by the institution of one Member on
more Members, as well as to the members of
behalf of the institution of another Member
their families and to their survivors, in all cases
unless it has been agreed that there shall
in which the international system for the
be no reimbursement;
maintenance of rights established by this
Convention requires that account be taken of (d) the rules to avoid undue plurality of
the legislation of a Member other than the contributions or other liabilities or of
Member in whose territory the persons benefits.
concerned are resident or temporarily
PART II. APPLICABLE LEGISLATION
resident.
Article 5
2. This Convention does not require any
1. The legislation applicable in respect of the
Member to apply its provisions to persons who,
persons covered by this Convention shall be
by virtue of international instruments, are
determined by mutual agreement between the
exempted from the application of the
Members concerned, with a view to avoiding
legislation of that Member.
conflicts of laws and the undesirable
Article 4 consequences that might ensue for those
1. Members may give effect to their concerned either through lack of protection, or
obligations under the terms of Parts II to VI of as a result of undue plurality of contributions or
this Convention by bilateral or multilateral other liabilities or of benefits, in accordance
instruments giving effect to these obligations, with the following rules:
under conditions to be determined by mutual (a) employees who are normally employed in
agreement between the Members concerned. the territory of a Member shall be subject
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of to the legislation of that Member, even if
paragraph 1 of this Article, the provisions of they are resident in the territory of another
paragraph 4 of Article 7, of paragraphs 2 and Member or if the undertaking which
3 of Article 8, of paragraphs 1 and 4 of employs them has its registered office, or
Article 9, of Article 11, of Article 12, of Article their employer has his place of residence,
14 and of paragraph 3 of Article 18 of this in the territory of another Member;
Convention shall be immediately applied by (b) self-employed persons who normally
each Member as from the coming into force of engage in their occupation in the territory
this Convention for that Member. of a Member shall be subject to the
3. The instruments referred to in paragraph 1 legislation of that Member, even if they are
of this Article shall specify in particular- resident in the territory of another Member;
69

--- Page 76 ---
Building social protection systems
(c) employees and self-employed persons 2. Periods completed concurrently under the
sailing on board a ship flying the flag of a legislation of two or more Members shall be
Member shall be subject to the legislation reckoned only once.
of that Member even if they are resident in 3. The Members concerned shall, where
the territory of another Member or if the necessary, determine by mutual agreement
undertaking which employs them has its special arrangements for adding together
registered office, or their employer has his periods which are different in nature and
place of residence, in the territory of periods qualifying for right to benefits under
another Member; special schemes.
(d) persons who are not part of the 4. Where a person has completed periods
economically active population shall be under the legislation of three or more Members
subject to the legislation of the Member in which are parties to different bilateral or
whose territory they are resident, in so far multilateral instruments, each Member which
as they are not protected in virtue of is concurrently bound by two or more of the
subparagraphs (a) to (c) of this paragraph. instruments in question shall add these
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of periods together, to the extent necessary, in
subparagraphs (a) to (c) of paragraph 1 of this accordance with the provisions of these
Article, Members concerned may agree that instruments, for the purposes of acquisition,
certain categories of persons, in particular self- maintenance or recovery of rights to benefit.
employed persons, shall be subject to the
Article 8
legislation of the Member in whose territory
they are resident. 1. The schemes for the maintenance of rights
in course of acquisition referred to in Article 6
3. Members concerned may determine by
of this Convention shall determine the formula
mutual agreement other exceptions to the
of awarding:
rules set forth in paragraph 1 of this Article, in
the interest of the persons concerned. (a) invalidity, old-age and survivors’ benefits,
and
PART III. MAINTENANCE OF RIGHTS
(b) pensions, in respect of occupational
IN COURSE OF ACQUISITION
diseases,
Article 6
as well as the apportionment, where
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, appropriate, of the costs involved.
subparagraph (a), of Article 4 of this
2. In the case referred to in paragraph 4 of
Convention, each Member shall endeavour to
Article 7 of this Convention, each Member
participate with every other Member
which is concurrently bound by two or more of
concerned in schemes for the maintenance of
the instruments in question shall apply the
rights in course of acquisition, as regards each
provisions of these instruments for the purpose
branch of social security referred to in
of calculating benefits to which there is a right
paragraph 1 of Article 2 of this Convention and
under its legislation, taking into account the
for which every one of these Members has
periods added together in accordance with the
legislation in force, for the benefit of persons
legislation of the Members concerned.
who have been subject successively or
3. Where in application of the provisions of
alternately to the legislation of the said
paragraph 2 of this Article a Member would
Members.
have to award benefits of the same nature to
Article 7 the same person in pursuance of two or more
1. The schemes for the maintenance of rights bilateral or multilateral instruments, that
in course of acquisition referred to in Article 6 Member shall be required to award only the
of this Convention shall provide for the adding benefit most favourable to the person
together, to the extent necessary, of periods of concerned as determined on the initial award
insurance, employment, occupational activity of these benefits.
or residence, as the case may be, completed 4. Notwithstanding the provisions of
under the legislation of the Members paragraph 2 of this Article the Members
concerned for the purposes of: concerned may, where necessary, agree on
(a) participation in voluntary insurance or supplementary provisions for the calculation of
optional continued insurance, where the benefits specified in that paragraph.
appropriate;
PART IV. MAINTENANCE OF ACQUIRED
(b) acquisition, maintenance or recovery of RIGHTS AND PROVISION OF BENEFITS
rights and, as the case may be, calculation ABROAD
of benefits.
Article 9
70

--- Page 77 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
1. Each Member shall guarantee the corresponding to the benefits provided under
provision of invalidity, old-age and survivors’ the legislation of another Member, subject to
cash benefits, pensions in respect of the agreement of that Member.
employment injuries and death grants, to 3. Members concerned shall endeavour to
which a right is acquired under its legislation, participate in schemes for the maintenance of
to beneficiaries who are nationals of a Member rights acquired under their legislation, taking
or refugees or stateless persons, irrespective into account the provisions of Part III of this
of their place of residence, subject to Convention, as regards each of the following
measures for this purpose to be taken, where branches of social security for which each of
necessary, by agreement between the these Members has legislation in force:
Members or with the states concerned. unemployment benefit, family benefit and,
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1
paragraph 1 of this Article, the Members of Article 9 of this Convention and paragraph 1
concerned which participate in the schemes of this Article, rehabilitation benefit. These
for the maintenance of rights in course of schemes shall guarantee such benefits to
acquisition referred to in Article 6 of this persons resident in the territory of one of these
Convention may agree to guarantee the Members other than the competent Member,
provision of the benefits referred to in the said under conditions and within limits to be
paragraph to beneficiaries resident in the determined by mutual agreement between the
territory of a Member other than the competent Members concerned.
Member, within the framework of the bilateral
Article 11
or multilateral agreements referred to in
paragraph 1 of Article 4 of this Convention. The rules for the adjustment of benefits
provided for under the legislation of a Member
3. In addition, notwithstanding the provisions
shall be applicable to the benefits payable
of paragraph 1 of this Article, in the case of
under that legislation by virtue of the provisions
non-contributory benefits, the Members
of this Convention.
concerned shall determine by mutual
agreement the conditions under which the PART V. ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANCE
provision of these benefits shall be guaranteed AND ASSISTANCE TO PERSONS
to beneficiaries resident in the territory of a COVERED BY THIS CONVENTION
Member other than the competent member.
Article 12
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of
1. The authorities and institutions of
this Article need not be applied to:
Members shall afford one another assistance
(a) special non-contributory benefits awarded with a view to facilitating the application of this
as a form of assistance or in cases of Convention and of their respective legislation.
need;
2. In principle, the administrative assistance
(b) benefits awarded under transitional given by these authorities and institutions to
schemes. one another shall be free of charge. Members
may agree to reimburse certain expenses.
Article 10
3. The authorities, institutions and
1. Members concerned shall endeavour to
jurisdictions of one Member may not reject
participate in schemes for the maintenance of
claims or other documents submitted to them
rights acquired under their legislation, taking
by reason of the fact that they are written in an
into account the provisions of Part III of this
official language of another Member.
Convention, as regards each of the following
branches of social security for which each of Article 13
these Members has legislation in force:
1. Where a claimant is resident in the territory
medical care, sickness benefit, maternity
of a Member other than the competent
benefit and benefit in respect of employment
Member, he may present his claim validly to
injuries, other than pensions and death grants.
the institution of his place of residence, which
These schemes shall guarantee such benefits
shall forward it to the institution or institutions
to persons resident or temporarily resident in
referred to in the claim.
the territory of one of these Members other
than the competent Member, under conditions 2. Any claim, declaration or appeal that
and within limits to be determined by mutual should have been submitted, under the
agreement between the Members concerned. legislation of a Member, within a specified time
to an authority, institution or jurisdiction of that
2. When not assured by existing legislation,
Member, shall be admissible if it is submitted
the reciprocity required by paragraph 1 of this
within that time-limit to an authority, institution
Article may be assured by measures taken by
or jurisdiction of another Member in the
a Member to guarantee benefits
71

--- Page 78 ---
Building social protection systems
territory of which the claimant is resident. In Article 17
such event, the authority, institution or 1. Members may derogate from the
jurisdiction receiving the claim, declaration or provisions of this Convention by special
appeal shall forward it without delay to the arrangements within the framework of the
competent authority, institution or jurisdiction bilateral or multilateral instruments concluded
of the first Member. The date on which any amongst two or more of them, on condition that
claim, declaration or appeal was submitted to they do not affect the rights and obligations of
an authority, institution or jurisdiction of the other Members and settle the maintenance of
second Member shall be deemed to be the rights on terms which, in the aggregate, are at
date of its submission to the authority, least as favourable as those of this
institution or jurisdiction competent to deal with Convention.
it.
2. A Member shall be deemed to satisfy the
3. Benefits to be provided by a Member to a provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9 and of
beneficiary resident or temporarily resident in Article 11 of this Convention:
the territory of another Member may be
(a) if it guarantees at the date of its ratification
provided either directly by the institution liable
the provision of the relevant benefits in a
for the payment, or through the intermediary of
substantial amount prescribed under its
an institution designated by the latter Member,
legislation, to all beneficiaries regardless
at the place where the beneficiary is resident
of their nationality and irrespective of their
or temporarily resident, subject to the
place of residence; and
agreement of the Members concerned.
(b) if it gives effect to the provisions of
Article 14 paragraph 1 of Article 9 and of Article 11
Each Member shall promote the development of this Convention within the framework of
of social services to assist persons covered by the bilateral or multilateral instruments
this Convention, particularly migrant workers, referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 4 of
in their dealings with the authorities, this Convention.
institutions and jurisdictions, particularly with 3. Each Member which has taken advantage
respect to the award and receipt of benefits to of the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article
which they are entitled and the exercise of their shall indicate in its reports on the application of
right of appeal, as well as in order to promote this Convention submitted under article 22 of
their personal and family welfare. the Constitution of the International Labour
Organisation:
PART VI. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
(a) that its reasons for doing so subsist; or
Article 15
(b) that it renounces its right to avail itself of
Except for invalidity, old-age and survivors’
the provisions of the above-mentioned
benefits and benefits in respect of
paragraph of this Article as from a stated
occupational disease, the costs of which are
date.
apportioned among two or more Members, this
Convention shall not confer or maintain a right PART VII. TRANSITIONAL
to several benefits of the same nature based AND FINAL PROVISIONS
on the same period of compulsory insurance, Article 18
employment, occupational activity or
1. This Convention does not confer any right
residence.
to benefit in respect of a period prior to its
Article 16 coming into force for the Members concerned.
1. The benefits provided and other costs 2. For the application of the provisions of this
borne by an institution of a Member on behalf Convention, all periods of insurance,
of an institution of another Member shall be employment, occupational activity or
reimbursed in accordance with the modalities residence completed under the legislation of a
determined by mutual agreement among Member before the date on which a scheme
these Members, unless they have agreed that for the maintenance of rights in course of
there shall be no reimbursement. acquisition referred to in Article 6 of this
Convention enters into force for the Member
2. Transfers of sums resulting from the
concerned shall be taken into account for the
application of this Convention shall be
purpose of determining whether rights arise
effected, if need be, in accordance with the
under that scheme as from the date of its entry
agreements in force between the Members
into force, subject to specific provisions to be
concerned at the date of transfer. In the
agreed upon, if necessary, between the
absence of such agreements, the necessary
Members concerned.
arrangements shall be agreed between them.
72

--- Page 79 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
3. Any benefit referred to in paragraph 1 of maintenance of rights in course of acquisition
Article 9 of this Convention, which has not in pursuance of Article 6 of this Convention has
been awarded or which has been suspended become applicable in these relations.
on account of the residence of the claimant in Article 21
the territory of a State other than the
The formal ratifications of this Convention shall
competent Member, shall be awarded or
be communicated to the Director-General of
resumed, at the request of the person
the International Labour Office for registration.
concerned, as from the date on which this
Convention enters into force for the latter Article 22
Member or from the date of its entry into force 1. This Convention shall be binding only
for the Member of which he is a national, upon those Members of the International
whichever is the later, unless the person Labour Organisation whose ratifications have
concerned has previously obtained a lumpsum been registered with the Director-General.
settlement in place of this benefit. The
2. It shall come into force twelve months after
provisions of the legislation of the competent
the date on which the ratifications of two
Member concerning the extinction of rights
Members have been registered with the
shall not be invoked against the person
Director-General.
concerned if he submits his request within two
years following this date or the date of the 3. Thereafter, this Convention shall come
coming into effect of the measures provided for into force for any Member twelve months after
in paragraph 1 of Article 9, as the case may be. the date on which its ratification has been
registered.
4. Members concerned shall determine by
mutual agreement the extent to which a Article 23
scheme for the maintenance of rights in course
1. A Member which has ratified this
of acquisition referred to in Article 6 of this
Convention may denounce it after the
Convention applies to a contingency arising
expiration of ten years from the date on which
before the entry into force of the scheme for
the Convention first comes into force, by an act
these Members.
communicated to the Director-General of the
Article 19 International Labour Office for registration.
Such denunciation shall not take effect until
1. The denunciation of this Convention by a
one year after the date on which it is
Member shall not affect the Member’s
registered.
obligations with respect to contingencies
arising before the date on which denunciation 2. Each Member which has ratified this
has taken effect. Convention and which does not, within the
year following the expiration of the period of
2. Rights in course of acquisition which are
ten years mentioned in the preceding
maintained by virtue of this Convention shall
paragraph, exercise the right of denunciation
not lapse by reason of its denunciation by a
provided for in this Article, will be bound for
Member; their further maintenance during the
another period of ten years and, thereafter,
period subsequent to the date on which this
may denounce this Convention at the
Convention ceased to be in force shall be
expiration of each period of ten years under
determined by the bilateral or multilateral
the terms provided for in this Article.
social security instruments concluded by the
Member, or, in the absence of such Article 24
instruments, by the legislation of the said
1. The Director-General of the International
Member.
Labour Office shall notify all Members of the
Article 20 International Labour Organisation of the
registration of all ratifications and
1. This Convention, revises, on the terms set
denunciations communicated to him by the
forth in the following paragraphs of this Article,
Members of the Organisation.
the Maintenance of Migrants’ Pension Rights
Convention, 1935. 2. When notifying the Members of the
Organisation of the registration of the second
2. The coming into force of this Convention for
ratification communicated to him, the Director-
any Member bound by the obligations of the
General shall draw the attention of the
Maintenance of Migrants’ Pension Rights
Members of the Organisation to the date upon
Convention, 1935, shall not, ipso jure, involve
which the Convention will come into force.
the immediate denunciation of that Convention.
3. The Maintenance of Migrants’ Pension Article 25
Rights Convention, 1935, shall cease to have The Director-General of the International
effect in the relations between any Members Labour Office shall communicate to the
parties thereto as and when a scheme for the
73

--- Page 80 ---
Building social protection systems
Secretary-General of the United Nations for (a) the ratification by a Member of the new
registration in accordance with article 102 of revising Convention shall ipso jure involve
the Charter of the United Nations full the immediate denunciation of this
particulars of all ratifications and acts of Convention, notwithstanding the
denunciation registered by him in accordance provisions of Article 23 above, if and when
with the provisions of the preceding Articles. the new revising Convention shall have
come into force;
Article 26
(b) as from the date when the new revising
At such times as it may consider necessary the
Convention comes into force this
Governing Body of the International Labour
Convention shall cease to be open to
Office shall present to the General Conference
ratification by the Members.
a report on the working of this Convention and
2. This Convention shall in any case remain
shall examine the desirability of placing on the
in force in its actual form and content for those
agenda of the Conference the question of its
Members which have ratified it but have not
revision in whole or in part.
ratified the revising Convention.
Article 27 Article 28
1. Should the Conference adopt a new The English and French versions of the text of
Convention revising this Convention in whole this Convention are equally authoritative.
or in part, then, unless the new Convention
otherwise provides:
C168 – Employment Promotion and Protection against Unemployment
Convention, 1988
Preamble young people, many of whom are seeking their
The General Conference of the International first employment, and
Labour Organisation, Considering that, since the adoption of the
Having been convened at Geneva by the international instruments concerning
Governing Body of the International Labour protection against unemployment referred to
Office, and having met in its Seventy-fifth above, there have been important new
Session on 1 June 1988, and developments in the law and practice of many
Members necessitating the revision of existing
Emphasising the importance of work and
standards, in particular the Unemployment
productive employment in any society not only
Provision Convention, 1934, and the adoption
because of the resources which they create for
of new international standards concerning the
the community, but also because of the
promotion of full, productive and freely chosen
income which they bring to workers, the social
employment by all appropriate means,
role which they confer and the feeling of self-
including social security, and
esteem which workers derive from them, and
Noting that the provisions concerning
Recalling the existing international standards
unemployment benefit in the Social Security
in the field of employment and unemployment
(Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952, lay
protection (the Unemployment Provision
down a level of protection that has now been
Convention and Recommendation, 1934, the
surpassed by most of the existing
Unemployment (Young Persons) Recom-
compensation schemes in the industrialised
mendation, 1935, the Income Security Recom-
countries and, unlike standards concerning
mendation, 1944, the Social Security
other benefits, have not been followed by
(Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952, the
higher standards, but that the standards in
Employment Policy Convention and Recom-
question can still constitute a target for
mendation, 1964, the Human Resources
developing countries that are in a position to
Development Convention and Recom-
set up an unemployment compensation
mendation, 1975, the Labour Administration
scheme, and
Convention and Recommendation, 1978, and
the Employment Policy (Supplementary Recognising that policies leading to stable,
Provisions) Recommendation, 1984), and sustained, non-inflationary economic growth
and a flexible response to change, as well as to
Considering the widespread unemployment
creation and promotion of all forms of productive
and underemployment affecting various
and freely chosen employment including small
countries throughout the world at all stages of
undertakings, co-operatives, self-employment
development and in particular the problems of
74

--- Page 81 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
and local initiatives for employment, even provisions of Part VII from the obligations
through the re-distribution of resources currently accepted by ratification.
devoted to the financing of purely assistance- 2. Each Member which has made a
oriented activities towards activities which declaration under paragraph 1 above may
promote employment especially vocational withdraw it at any time by a subsequent
guidance, training and rehabilitation, offer the declaration.
best protection against the adverse effects of
involuntary unemployment, but that involuntary Article 5
unemployment nevertheless exists and that it is 1. Each Member may avail itself, by a
therefore important to ensure that social declaration accompanying its ratification, of at
security systems should provide employment most two of the temporary exceptions provided
assistance and economic support to those who for in Article 10, paragraph 4, Article 11,
are involuntarily unemployed, and paragraph 3, Article 15, paragraph 2, Article 18,
Having decided upon the adoption of certain paragraph 2, Article 19, paragraph 4, Article 23,
proposals with regard to employment paragraph 2, Article 24, paragraph 2, and Article
promotion and social security which is the fifth 25, paragraph 2. Such a declaration shall state
item on the agenda of the session with a view, the reasons which justify these exceptions.
in particular, to revising the Unemployment 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of para-
Provision Convention, 1934, and graph 1 above, a Member, where it is justified
Having determined that these proposals shall by the extent of protection of its social security
take the form of an international Convention, system, may avail itself, by a declaration ac-
companying its ratification, of the temporary
adopts this twenty-first day of June of the year
exceptions provided for in Article 10, para-
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-eight
graph 4, Article 11, paragraph 3, Article 15,
the following Convention, which may be cited
paragraph 2, Article 18, paragraph 2, Arti-
as the Employment Promotion and Protection
cle 19, paragraph 4, Article 23, paragraph 2,
against Unemployment Convention, 1988:
Article 24, paragraph 2 and Article 25, para-
I. GENERAL PROVISIONS graph 2. Such a declaration shall state the rea-
Article 1 sons which justify these exceptions.
In this Convention: 3. Each Member which has made a
declaration under paragraph 1 or paragraph 2
(a) the term legislation includes any social
shall include in its reports on the application of
security rules as well as laws and
this Convention submitted under article 22 of
regulations;
the Constitution of the International Labour
(b) the term prescribed means determined
Organisation a statement in respect of each
by or in virtue of national legislation.
exception of which it avails itself-
Article 2 (a) that its reason for doing so subsists; or
Each Member shall take appropriate steps to (b) that it renounces its right to avail itself of
co-ordinate its system of protection against the exception in question as from a stated
unemployment and its employment policy. To date.
this end, it shall seek to ensure that its system 4. Each Member which has made a
of protection against unemployment, and in declaration under paragraph 1 or paragraph 2
particular the methods of providing shall, as appropriate to the terms of such
unemployment benefit, contribute to the declaration and as circumstances permit-
promotion of full, productive and freely chosen
(a) cover the contingency of partial unem-
employment, and are not such as to
ployment;
discourage employers from offering and
(b) increase the number of persons protected;
workers from seeking productive employment.
(c) increase the amount of the benefits;
Article 3
(d) reduce the length of the waiting period;
The provisions of this Convention shall be
(e) extend the duration of payment of benefits;
implemented in consultation and co-operation
(f) adapt statutory social security schemes to
with the organisations of employers and
the occupational circumstances of part-
workers, in accordance with national practice.
time workers;
Article 4 (g) endeavour to ensure the provision of
1. Each Member which ratifies this medical care to persons in receipt of
Convention may, by a declaration unemployment benefit and their
accompanying its ratification, exclude the dependants;
75

--- Page 82 ---
Building social protection systems
(h) endeavour to guarantee that the periods Article 9
during which such benefit is paid will be The measures envisaged in this Part shall be
taken into account for the acquisition of the taken in the light of the Human Resources
right to social security benefits and, where Development Convention and Recommendation,
appropriate, the calculation of disability, 1975, and the Employment Policy
old-age and survivors’ benefit. (supplementary Provisions) Recommendation,
1984.
Article 6
1. Each Member shall ensure equality of III. CONTINGENCIES COVERED
treatment for all persons protected, without
Article 10
discrimination on the basis of race, colour, sex,
religion, political opinion, national extraction, 1. The contingencies covered shall include,
nationality, ethnic or social origin, disability or under prescribed conditions, full unemployment
age. defined as the loss of earnings due to inability to
obtain suitable employment with due regard to
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not
the provisions of Article 21, paragraph 2, in the
prevent the adoption of special measures
case of a person capable of working, available
which are justified by the circumstances of
for work and actually seeking work.
identified groups under the schemes referred
to in Article 12, paragraph 2, or are designed 2. Each Member shall endeavour to extend
to meet the specific needs of categories of the protection of the Convention, under
persons who have particular problems in the prescribed conditions, to the following
labour market, in particular disadvantaged contingencies:
groups, or the conclusion between States of (a) loss of earnings due to partial
bilateral or multilateral agreements relating to unemployment, defined as a temporary
unemployment benefits on the basis of reduction in the normal or statutory hours
reciprocity. of work; and
(b) suspension or reduction of earnings due to
II. PROMOTION OF PRODUCTIVE
a temporary suspension of work, without
EMPLOYMENT
any break in the employment relationship
Article 7
for reasons of, in particular, an economic,
Each Member shall declare as a priority technological, structural or similar nature.
objective a policy designed to promote full,
3. Each Member shall in addition endeavour
productive and freely chosen employment by
to provide the payment of benefits to part-time
all appropriate means, including social
workers who are actually seeking full-time
security. Such means should include, inter
work. The total of benefits and earnings from
alia, employment services, vocational training
their part-time work may be such as to
and vocational guidance.
maintain incentives to take up full-time work.
Article 8 4. Where a declaration made in virtue of
1. Each Member shall endeavour to Article 5 is in force, the implementation of
establish, subject to national law and practice, paragraphs 2 and 3 above may be deferred.
special programmes to promote additional job
IV. PERSONS PROTECTED
opportunities and employment assistance and
Article 11
to encourage freely chosen and productive
employment for identified categories of 1. The persons protected shall comprise
disadvantaged persons having or liable to prescribed classes of employees, constituting
have difficulties in finding lasting employment not less than 85 per cent of all employees,
such as women, young workers, disabled including public employees and apprentices.
persons, older workers, the long-term 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of
unemployed, migrant workers lawfully resident paragraph 1 above, public employees whose
in the country and workers affected by employment up to normal retiring age is
structural change. guaranteed by national laws or regulations
2. Each Member shall specify, in its reports may be excluded from protection.
under article 22 of the Constitution of the 3. Where a declaration made in virtue of
International Labour Organisation, the Article 5 is in force, the persons protected shall
categories of persons for whom it undertakes comprise:
to promote employment programmes. (a) prescribed classes of employees
3. Each Member shall endeavour to extend constituting not less than 50 per cent of all
the promotion of productive employment employees; or
progressively to a greater number of
categories than the number initially covered.
76

--- Page 83 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
(b) where specifically justified by the level of shall be fixed at not less than 50 per cent
development, prescribed classes of of the statutory minimum wage or of the
employees constituting not less than 50 wage of an ordinary labourer, or at a level
per cent of all employees in industrial which provides the minimum essential for
workplaces employing 20 persons or basic living expenses, whichever is the
more. highest;
2. Where a declaration made in virtue of
V. METHODS OF PROTECTION
Article 5 is in force, the amount of the benefits
Article 12
shall be equal-
1. Unless it is otherwise provided in this
(a) to not less than 45 per cent of the previous
Convention, each Member may determine the
earnings; or
method or methods of protection by which it
(b) to not less than 45 per cent of the statutory
chooses to put into effect the provisions of the
minimum wage or of the wage of an
Convention, whether by a contributory or non-
ordinary labourer but no less than a level
contributory system, or by a combination of
which provides the minimum essential for
such systems.
basic living expenses.
2. Nevertheless, if the legislation of a
3. If appropriate, the percentages specified
Member protects all residents whose
in paragraphs 1 and 2 may be reached by
resources, during the contingency, do not
comparing net periodical payments after tax
exceed prescribed limits, the protection
and contributions with net earnings after tax
afforded may be limited, in the light of the
and contributions.
resources of the beneficiary and his or her
family, in accordance with the provisions of Article 16
Article 16.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 15,
VI. BENEFIT TO BE PROVIDED the benefit provided beyond the initial period
specified in Article 19, paragraph 2 (a), as well
Article 13
as benefits paid by a Member in accordance
Benefits provided in the form of periodical
with Article 12, paragraph 2, may be fixed after
payments to the unemployed may be related
taking account of other resources, beyond a
to the methods of protection.
prescribed limit, available to the beneficiary
Article 14 and his or her family, in accordance with a
prescribed scale. In any case, these benefits,
In cases of full unemployment, benefits shall
in combination with any other benefits to which
be provided in the form of periodical payments
they may be entitled, shall guarantee them
calculated in such a way as to provide the
healthy and reasonable living conditions in
beneficiary with partial and transitional wage
accordance with national standards.
replacement and, at the same time, to avoid
creating disincentives either to work or to Article 17
employment creation.
1. Where the legislation of a Member makes
Article 15 the right to unemployment benefit conditional
upon the completion of a qualifying period, this
1. In cases of full unemployment and
period shall not exceed the length deemed
suspension of earnings due to a temporary
necessary to prevent abuse.
suspension of work without any break in the
employment relationship, when this 2. Each Member shall endeavour to adapt
contingency is covered, benefits shall be the qualifying period to the occupational
provided in the form of periodical payments, circumstances of seasonal workers.
calculated as follows:
Article 18
(a) where these benefits are based on the
1. If the legislation of a Member provides that
contributions of or on behalf of the person
the payment of benefit in cases of full
protected or on previous earnings, they
unemployment should begin only after the
shall be fixed at not less than 50 per cent
expiry of a waiting period, such period shall not
of previous earnings, it being permitted to
exceed seven days.
fix a maximum for the amount of the
2. Where a declaration made in virtue of
benefit or for the earnings to be taken into
Article 5 is in force, the length of the waiting
account, which may be related, for
period shall not exceed ten days.
example, to the wage of a skilled manual
employee or to the average wage of 3. In the case of seasonal workers the
workers in the region concerned; waiting period specified in paragraph 1 above
may be adapted to their occupational
(b) where such benefits are not based on
circumstances.
contributions or previous earnings, they
77

--- Page 84 ---
Building social protection systems
Article 19 (c) when it has been determined by the
1. The benefits provided in cases of full competent authority that the person
unemployment and suspension of earnings concerned has left employment voluntarily
due to a temporary suspension of work without without just cause;
any break in the employment relationship shall (d) during the period of a labour dispute, when
be paid throughout these contingencies. the person concerned has stopped work to
2. Nevertheless, in the case of full take part in a labour dispute or when he or
unemployment: she is prevented from working as a direct
result of a stoppage of work due to this
(a) the initial duration of payment of the
labour dispute;
benefit provided for in Article 15 may be
limited to 26 weeks in each spell of (e) when the person concerned has
unemployment, or to 39 weeks over any attempted to obtain or has obtained
period of 24 months; benefits fraudulently;
(b) in the event of unemployment continuing (f) when the person concerned has failed
beyond this initial period of benefit, the without just cause to use the facilities
duration of payment of benefit, which may available for placement, vocational
be calculated in the light of the resources guidance, training, retraining or
of the beneficiary and his or her family in redeployment in suitable work;
accordance with the provisions of Article (g) as long as the person concerned is in
16, may be limited to a prescribed period. receipt of another income maintenance
3. If the legislation of a Member provides that benefit provided for in the legislation of the
the initial duration of payment of the benefit Member concerned, except a family
provided for in Article 15 shall vary with the benefit, provided that the part of the benefit
length of the qualifying period, the average which is suspended does not exceed that
duration fixed for the payment of benefits shall other benefit.
be at least 26 weeks.
Article 21
4. Where a declaration made in virtue of
1. The benefit to which a protected person
Article 5 is in force, the duration of payment of
would have been entitled in the case of full
benefit may be limited to 13 weeks over any
unemployment may be refused, withdrawn,
periods of 12 months or to an average of 13
suspended or reduced, to the extent
weeks if the legislation provides that the initial
prescribed, when the person concerned
duration of payment shall vary with the length
refuses to accept suitable employment.
of the qualifying period.
2. In assessing the suitability of employment,
5. In the cases envisaged in paragraph 2 (b)
account shall be taken, in particular, under
above each Member shall endeavour to grant
prescribed conditions and to an appropriate
appropriate additional assistance to the
extent, of the age of unemployed persons,
persons concerned with a view to permitting
their length of service in their former
them to find productive and freely chosen
occupation, their acquired experience, the
employment, having recourse in particular to
length of their period of unemployment, the
the measures specified in Part II.
labour market situation, the impact of the
6. The duration of payment of benefit to employment in question on their personal and
seasonal workers may be adapted to their family situation and whether the employment
occupational circumstances, without prejudice is vacant as a direct result of a stoppage of
to the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) above. work due to an on-going labour dispute.
Article 20 Article 22
The benefit to which a protected person would When protected persons have received
have been entitled in the cases of full or partial directly from their employer or from any other
unemployment or suspension of earnings due source under national laws or regulations or
to a temporary suspension of work without any collective agreements, severance pay, the
break in the employment relationship may be principal purpose of which is to contribute
refused, withdrawn, suspended or reduced to towards compensating them for the loss of
the extent prescribed- earnings suffered in the event of full
(a) for as long as the person concerned is unemployment-
absent from the territory of the Member; (a) the unemployment benefit to which the
(b) when it has been determined by the persons concerned would be entitled may
competent authority that the person be suspended for a period corresponding
concerned had deliberately contributed to to that during which the severance pay
his or her own dismissal;
78

--- Page 85 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
compensates for the loss of earnings VII. SPECIAL PROVISIONS
suffered; or FOR NEW APPLICANTS
(b) the severance pay may be reduced by an FOR EMPLOYMENT
amount corresponding to the value Article 26
converted into a lump sum of the 1. Members shall take account of the fact
unemployment benefit to which the that there are many categories of persons
persons concerned are entitled for a seeking work who have never been, or have
period corresponding to that during which ceased to be, recognised as unemployed or
the severance pay compensates for the have never been, or have ceased to be,
loss of earnings suffered, covered by schemes for the protection of the
as each Member may decide. unemployed. Consequently, at least three of
the following ten categories of persons seeking
Article 23
work shall receive social benefits, in
1. Each Member whose legislation provides accordance with prescribed terms and
for the right to medical care and makes it conditions:
directly or indirectly conditional upon
(a) young persons who have completed their
occupational activity shall endeavour to
vocational training;
ensure, under prescribed conditions, the
(b) young persons who have completed their
provision of medical care to persons in receipt
studies;
of unemployment benefit and to their
dependants. (c) young persons who have completed their
compulsory military service;
2. Where a declaration made in virtue of
Article 5 is in force, the implementation of (d) persons after a period devoted to bringing
paragraph 1 above may be deferred. up a child or caring for someone who is
sick, disabled or elderly;
Article 24
(e) persons whose spouse had died, when
1. Each Member shall endeavour to they are not entitled to a survivor’s benefit;
guarantee to persons in receipt of
(f) divorced or separated persons;
unemployment benefit, under prescribed
(g) released prisoners;
conditions, that the periods during which
benefits are paid will be taken into (h) adults, including disabled persons, who
consideration: have completed a period of training;
(a) for acquisition of the right to and, where (i) migrant workers on return to their home
appropriate, calculation of disability, old- country, except in so far as they have
age and survivors’ benefit, and acquired rights under the legislation of the
country where they last worked;
(b) for acquisition of the right to medical care
and sickness, maternity and family benefit (j) previously self-employed persons.
after the end of unemployment, 2. Each Member shall specify, in its reports
when the legislation of the Member concerned under article 22 of the Constitution of the
provides for such benefits and makes them International Labour Organisation, the
directly or indirectly conditional upon categories of persons listed in paragraph 1
occupational activity. above which it undertakes to protect.
2. Where a declaration made in virtue of 3. Each Member shall endeavour to extend
Article 5 is in force, the implementation of protection progressively to a greater number of
paragraph 1 above may be deferred. categories than the number initially protected.
Article 25 VIII. LEGAL, ADMINISTRATIVE AND
FINANCIAL GUARANTEES
1. Each Member shall ensure that statutory
social security schemes which are based on Article 27
occupational activity are adjusted to the 1. In the event of refusal, withdrawal,
occupational circumstances of part-time suspension or reduction of benefit or dispute
workers, unless their hours of work or earnings as to its amount, claimants shall have the right
can be considered, under prescribed to present a complaint to the body
conditions, as negligible. administering the benefit scheme and to
2. Where a declaration made in virtue of appeal thereafter to an independent body.
Article 5 is in force, the implementation of They shall be informed in writing of the
paragraph 1 above may be deferred. procedures available, which shall be simple
and rapid.
2. The appeal procedure shall enable the
claimant, in accordance with national law and
79

--- Page 86 ---
Building social protection systems
practice, to be represented or assisted by a 3. Thereafter, this Convention shall come
qualified person of the claimant’s choice or by a into force for any Member twelve months after
delegate of a representative workers’ the date on which its ratification has been
organisation or by a delegate of an organisation registered.
representative of protected persons.
Article 34
Article 28 1. A Member which has ratified this
Each Member shall assume general Convention may denounce it after the
responsibility for the sound administration of expiration of ten years from the date on which
the institutions and services entrusted with the the Convention first comes into force, by an act
application of the Convention. communicated to the Director-General of the
International Labour Office for registration.
Article 29
Such denunciation shall not take effect until
1. When the administration is directly one year after the date on which it is
entrusted to a government department registered.
responsible to Parliament, representatives of
2. Each Member which has ratified this
the protected persons and of the employers
Convention and which does not, within the
shall be associated in the administration in an
year following the expiration of the period of
advisory capacity, under prescribed
ten years mentioned in the preceding
conditions.
paragraph, exercise the right of denunciation
2. When the administration is not entrusted provided for in this Article, will be bound for
to a government department responsible to another period of ten years and, thereafter,
Parliament: may denounce this Convention at the
(a) representatives of the protected persons expiration of each period of ten years under
shall participate in the administration or be the terms provided for in this Article.
associated therewith in an advisory
Article 35
capacity under prescribed conditions;
1. The Director-General of the International
(b) national laws or regulations may also
Labour Office shall notify all Members of the
provide for the participation of employers’
International Labour Organisation of the
representatives;
registration of all ratifications and
(c) the laws or regulations may further provide
denunciations communicated to him by the
for the participation of representatives of
Members of the Organisation.
the public authorities.
2. When notifying the members of the
Article 30 Organisation of the registration of the second
In cases where subsidies are granted by the ratification communicated to him, the Director-
State or the social security system in order to General shall draw the attention of the
safeguard employment, Members shall take Members of the Organisation to the date upon
the necessary steps to ensure that the which the Convention will come into force.
payments are expended only for the intended Article 36
purpose and to prevent fraud or abuse by The Director-General of the International
those who receive such payments. Labour Office shall communicate to the
Secretary-General of the United Nations for
Article 31
registration in accordance with Article 102 of
This Convention revises the Unemployment the Charter of the United Nations full
Provision Convention, 1934. particulars of all ratifications and acts of
denunciation registered by him in accordance
Article 32
with the provisions of the preceding Articles.
The formal ratifications of this Convention shall
Article 37
be communicated to the Director-General of
the International Labour Office for registration. At such times as it may consider necessary the
Governing Body of the International Labour
Article 33
Office shall present to the General Conference
1. This Convention shall be binding only
a report on the working of this Convention and
upon those Members of the International
shall examine the desirability of placing on the
Labour Organisation whose ratifications have
agenda of the Conference the question of its
been registered with the Director-General.
revision in whole or in part.
2. It shall come into force twelve months after
the date on which the ratifications of two Article 38
Members have been registered with the 1. Should the Conference adopt a new
Director-General. Convention revising this Convention in whole
80

--- Page 87 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
or in part, then, unless the new Convention Convention shall cease to be open to
otherwise provides- ratification by the Members.
(a) the ratification by a Member of the new 2. This Convention shall in any case remain
revising Convention shall ipso jure involve in force in its actual form and content for those
the immediate denunciation of this Members which have ratified it but have not
Convention, notwithstanding the ratified the revising Convention.
provisions of Article 34 above, if and when
Article 39
the new revising Convention shall have
come into force; The English and French versions of the text of
this Convention are equally authoritative.
(b) as from the date when the new revising
Convention comes into force this
C183 – Maternity Protection Convention, 2000
Preamble 1952, and Recommendation, 1952, which is
The General Conference of the International the fourth item on the agenda of the session,
Labour Organization, and
Having been convened at Geneva by the Having determined that these proposals shall
Governing Body of the International Labour take the form of an international Convention;
Office, and having met in its 88th Session on adopts this fifteenth day of June of the year two
30 May 2000, and thousand the following Convention, which may
Noting the need to revise the Maternity be cited as the Maternity Protection Convention,
Protection Convention (Revised), 1952, and 2000.
the Maternity Protection Recommendation,
SCOPE
1952, in order to further promote equality of all
Article 1
women in the workforce and the health and
safety of the mother and child, and in order to For the purposes of this Convention, the term
recognize the diversity in economic and social woman applies to any female person without
development of Members, as well as the discrimination whatsoever and the term child
diversity of enterprises, and the development applies to any child without discrimination
of the protection of maternity in national law whatsoever.
and practice, and
Article 2
Noting the provisions of the Universal
1. This Convention applies to all employed
Declaration of Human Rights (1948), the United
women, including those in atypical forms of
Nations Convention on the Elimination of All
dependent work.
Forms of Discrimination Against Women
(1979), the United Nations Convention on the 2. However, each Member which ratifies this
Rights of the Child (1989), the Beijing Convention may, after consulting the
Declaration and Platform for Action (1995), the representative organizations of employers and
International Labour Organization’s Declaration workers concerned, exclude wholly or partly
on Equality of Opportunity and Treatment for from the scope of the Convention limited
Women Workers (1975), the International categories of workers when its application to
Labour Organization’s Declaration on them would raise special problems of a
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and substantial nature.
its Follow-up (1998), as well as the international 3. Each Member which avails itself of the
labour Conventions and Recommendations possibility afforded in the preceding paragraph
aimed at ensuring equality of opportunity and shall, in its first report on the application of the
treatment for men and women workers, in Convention under article 22 of the Constitution
particular the Convention concerning Workers of the International Labour Organization, list
with Family Responsibilities, 1981, and the categories of workers thus excluded and
Taking into account the circumstances of the reasons for their exclusion. In its
women workers and the need to provide subsequent reports, the Member shall
protection for pregnancy, which are the shared describe the measures taken with a view to
responsibility of government and society, and progressively extending the provisions of the
Convention to these categories.
Having decided upon the adoption of certain
proposals with regard to the revision of the
Maternity Protection Convention (Revised),
81

--- Page 88 ---
Building social protection systems
HEALTH PROTECTION practice, to women who are absent from work
Article 3 on leave referred to in Articles 4 or 5.
Each Member shall, after consulting the 2. Cash benefits shall be at a level which
representative organizations of employers and ensures that the woman can maintain herself
workers, adopt appropriate measures to and her child in proper conditions of health and
ensure that pregnant or breastfeeding women with a suitable standard of living.
are not obliged to perform work which has 3. Where, under national law or practice,
been determined by the competent authority to cash benefits paid with respect to leave
be prejudicial to the health of the mother or the referred to in Article 4 are based on previous
child, or where an assessment has established earnings, the amount of such benefits shall not
a significant risk to the mother’s health or that be less than two-thirds of the woman’s
of her child. previous earnings or of such of those earnings
as are taken into account for the purpose of
MATERNITY LEAVE
computing benefits.
Article 4
4. Where, under national law or practice,
1. On production of a medical certificate or other methods are used to determine the cash
other appropriate certification, as determined benefits paid with respect to leave referred to
by national law and practice, stating the in Article 4, the amount of such benefits shall
presumed date of childbirth, a woman to whom be comparable to the amount resulting on
this Convention applies shall be entitled to a average from the application of the preceding
period of maternity leave of not less than 14 paragraph.
weeks.
5. Each Member shall ensure that the
2. The length of the period of leave referred conditions to qualify for cash benefits can be
to above shall be specified by each Member in satisfied by a large majority of the women to
a declaration accompanying its ratification of whom this Convention applies.
this Convention.
6. Where a woman does not meet the
3. Each Member may subsequently deposit conditions to qualify for cash benefits under
with the Director-General of the International national laws and regulations or in any other
Labour Office a further declaration extending manner consistent with national practice, she
the period of maternity leave. shall be entitled to adequate benefits out of
4. With due regard to the protection of the social assistance funds, subject to the means
health of the mother and that of the child, test required for such assistance.
maternity leave shall include a period of six 7. Medical benefits shall be provided for the
weeks’ compulsory leave after childbirth, woman and her child in accordance with
unless otherwise agreed at the national level national laws and regulations or in any other
by the government and the representative manner consistent with national practice.
organizations of employers and workers. Medical benefits shall include prenatal,
5. The prenatal portion of maternity leave childbirth and postnatal care, as well as
shall be extended by any period elapsing hospitalization care when necessary.
between the presumed date of childbirth and 8. In order to protect the situation of women
the actual date of childbirth, without reduction in the labour market, benefits in respect of the
in any compulsory portion of postnatal leave. leave referred to in Articles 4 and 5 shall be
provided through compulsory social insurance
LEAVE IN CASE OF ILLNESS OR
or public funds, or in a manner determined by
COMPLICATIONS
national law and practice. An employer shall
Article 5 not be individually liable for the direct cost of
On production of a medical certificate, leave any such monetary benefit to a woman
shall be provided before or after the maternity employed by him or her without that
leave period in the case of illness, employer’s specific agreement except where:
complications or risk of complications arising (a) such is provided for in national law or
out of pregnancy or childbirth. The nature and practice in a member State prior to the
the maximum duration of such leave may be date of adoption of this Convention by the
specified in accordance with national law and International Labour Conference; or
practice.
(b) it is subsequently agreed at the national
BENEFITS level by the government and the
representative organizations of employers
Article 6
and workers.
1. Cash benefits shall be provided, in
accordance with national laws and regulations,
or in any other manner consistent with national
82

--- Page 89 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Article 7 BREASTFEEDING MOTHERS
1. A Member whose economy and social Article 10
security system are insufficiently developed 1. A woman shall be provided with the right
shall be deemed to be in compliance with to one or more daily breaks or a daily reduction
Article 6, paragraphs 3 and 4, if cash benefits of hours of work to breastfeed her child.
are provided at a rate no lower than a rate
2. The period during which nursing breaks or
payable for sickness or temporary disability in
the reduction of daily hours of work are
accordance with national laws and regulations.
allowed, their number, the duration of nursing
2. A Member which avails itself of the breaks and the procedures for the reduction of
possibility afforded in the preceding paragraph daily hours of work shall be determined by
shall, in its first report on the application of this national law and practice. These breaks or the
Convention under article 22 of the Constitution reduction of daily hours of work shall be
of the International Labour Organization, counted as working time and remunerated
explain the reasons therefor and indicate the accordingly.
rate at which cash benefits are provided. In its
subsequent reports, the Member shall PERIODIC REVIEW
describe the measures taken with a view to Article 11
progressively raising the rate of benefits. Each Member shall examine periodically, in
EMPLOYMENT PROTECTION consultation with the representative
organizations of employers and workers, the
AND NON-DISCRIMINATION
appropriateness of extending the period of
Article 8
leave referred to in Article 4 or of increasing
1. It shall be unlawful for an employer to the amount or the rate of the cash benefits
terminate the employment of a woman during referred to in Article 6.
her pregnancy or absence on leave referred to
in Articles 4 or 5 or during a period following IMPLEMENTATION
her return to work to be prescribed by national Article 12
laws or regulations, except on grounds This Convention shall be implemented by
unrelated to the pregnancy or birth of the child means of laws or regulations, except in so far
and its consequences or nursing. The burden as effect is given to it by other means such as
of proving that the reasons for dismissal are collective agreements, arbitration awards,
unrelated to pregnancy or childbirth and its court decisions, or in any other manner
consequences or nursing shall rest on the consistent with national practice.
employer.
2. A woman is guaranteed the right to return FINAL PROVISIONS
to the same position or an equivalent position Article 13
paid at the same rate at the end of her This Convention revises the Maternity Protec-
maternity leave. tion Convention (Revised), 1952.
Article 9
Article 14
1. Each Member shall adopt appropriate
The formal ratifications of this Convention shall
measures to ensure that maternity does not
be communicated to the Director-General of
constitute a source of discrimination in
the International Labour Office for registration.
employment, including – notwithstanding
Article 2, paragraph 1 – access to Article 15
employment.
1. This Convention shall be binding only
2. Measures referred to in the preceding upon those Members of the International
paragraph shall include a prohibition from Labour Organization whose ratifications have
requiring a test for pregnancy or a certificate of been registered with the Director-General of
such a test when a woman is applying for the International Labour Office.
employment, except where required by
2. It shall come into force 12 months after the
national laws or regulations in respect of work
date on which the ratifications of two Members
that is:
have been registered with the Director-
(a) prohibited or restricted for pregnant or General.
nursing women under national laws or
3. Thereafter, this Convention shall come
regulations; or
into force for any Member 12 months after the
(b) where there is a recognized or significant date on which its ratification has been
risk to the health of the woman and child. registered.
83

--- Page 90 ---
Building social protection systems
Article 16 registration in accordance with article 102 of
1. A Member which has ratified this the Charter of the United Nations, full
Convention may denounce it after the particulars of all ratifications and acts of
expiration of ten years from the date on which denunciation registered by the Director-
the Convention first comes into force, by an act General in accordance with the provisions of
communicated to the Director-General of the the preceding Articles.
International Labour Office for registration.
Article 19
Such denunciation shall not take effect until
At such times as it may consider necessary,
one year after the date on which it is
the Governing Body of the International
registered.
Labour Office shall present to the General
2. Each Member which has ratified this
Conference a report on the working of this
Convention and which does not, within the
Convention and shall examine the desirability
year following the expiration of the period of
of placing on the agenda of the Conference the
ten years mentioned in the preceding
question of its revision in whole or in part.
paragraph, exercise the right of denunciation
provided for in this Article, will be bound for Article 20
another period of ten years and, thereafter, 1. Should the Conference adopt a new
may denounce this Convention at the Convention revising this Convention in whole
expiration of each period of ten years under or in part, then, unless the new Convention
the terms provided for in this Article. otherwise provides:
Article 17 (a) the ratification by a Member of the new
revising Convention shall ipso jure involve
1. The Director-General of the International
the immediate denunciation of this
Labour Office shall notify all Members of the
Convention, notwithstanding the
International Labour Organization of the
provisions of Article 16 above, if and when
registration of all ratifications and acts of
the new revising Convention shall have
denunciation communicated by the Members
come into force;
of the Organization.
(b) as from the date when the new revising
2. When notifying the Members of the
Convention comes into force, this
Organization of the registration of the second
Convention shall cease to be open to
ratification, the Director-General shall draw the
ratification by the Members.
attention of the Members of the Organization
2. This Convention shall in any case remain
to the date upon which the Convention shall
in force in its actual form and content for those
come into force.
Members which have ratified it but have not
Article 18 ratified the revising Convention.
The Director-General of the International
Article 21
Labour Office shall communicate to the
The English and French versions of the text of
Secretary-General of the United Nations, for
this Convention are equally authoritative.
84

--- Page 91 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
ILO Recommendations
R067 – Income Security Recommendation, 1944
Preamble de Chile, and by the approval by the
The General Conference of the International Governing Body of the Statute of the Inter-
Labour Organisation, American Conference on Social Security
established as a permanent agency of co-
Having been convened at Philadelphia by the
operation between social security
Governing Body of the International Labour
administrations and institutions acting in
Office, and having met in its Twenty-sixth
concert with the International Labour
Session on 20 April 1944, and
Office, and by the participation of the
Having decided upon the adoption of certain
International Labour Office in an advisory
proposals with regard to income security,
capacity in the framing of social insurance
which is included in the fourth item on the
schemes in a number of countries and by
agenda of the Session, and
other measures; and
Having determined that these proposals shall
Whereas some Members have not taken such
take the form of a Recommendation,
steps as are within their competence to
adopts this twelfth day of May of the year one promote the well-being and development of
thousand nine hundred and forty-four, the their people although their need for improved
following Recommendation, which may be labour standards, economic advancement and
cited as the Income Security social security is greatest; and
Recommendation, 1944:
Whereas it is now highly desirable that such
Whereas the Atlantic Charter contemplates Members take all necessary steps as soon as
the fullest collaboration between all nations in possible to reach the accepted international
the economic field with the object of securing minimum standards and develop those
for all improved labour standards, economic standards; and
advancement and social security; and
Whereas it is now desirable to take further
Whereas the Conference of the International steps towards the attainment of income
Labour Organisation by a resolution adopted security by the unification or co-ordination of
on 5 November 1941, endorsed this principle social insurance schemes, the extension of
of the Atlantic Charter and pledged the full co- such schemes to all workers and their families,
operation of the International Labour including rural populations and the self-
Organisation in its implementation; and employed, and the elimination of inequitable
Whereas income security is an essential anomalies; and
element in social security; and Whereas the formulation of certain general
Whereas the International Labour principles which should be followed by
Organisation has promoted the development Members of the Organisation in developing
of income security: their income security schemes along these
– by the adoption by the International Labour lines on the foundation of the existing
Conference of Conventions and Conventions and Recommendations, pending
Recommendations relating to workmen’s the unification and amplification of the
compensation for accidents and provisions of the said Conventions and
occupational diseases, sickness insurance, Recommendations, will contribute to this end;
provision for maternity, old-age, invalidity, The Conference:
and widows’ and orphans’ pensions, and (a) recommends the Members of the
provision for unemployment, Organisation to apply progressively the
– by the adoption by the First and Second following general guiding principles, as
Labour Conferences of American States of rapidly as national conditions allow, in
the resolutions constituting the Inter- developing their income security schemes
American Social Insurance Code, by the with a view to the implementation of the
participation of a delegation of the fifth principle of the Atlantic Charter, and to
Governing Body in the First Inter- report to the International Labour Office
American Conference on Social Security from time to time as requested by the
which adopted the declaration of Santiago Governing Body, concerning the
85

--- Page 92 ---
Building social protection systems
measures taken to give effect to the said (e) death of breadwinner;
general guiding principles; (f) unemployment;
(b) calls the attention of the Members of the (g) emergency expenses; and
Organisation to the suggestions for the
(h) employment injuries.
application of these general guiding
Provided that benefits should not be payable
principles submitted to the Conference
at the same time for more than one of the
and contained in the Annex to this
following contingencies: invalidity, old age and
Recommendation.
unemployment.
GUIDING PRINCIPLES 8. Supplements for each of the first two
General children should be added to all benefits
1. Income security schemes should relieve payable for loss of earnings, provision for
want and prevent destitution by restoring, up further children being left to be made by means
to a reasonable level, income which is lost by of children’s allowances payable out of public
reason of inability to work (including old age) funds or under contributory schemes.
or to obtain remunerative work or by reason of 9. The contingency for which sickness
the death of a breadwinner. benefit should be paid is loss of earnings due
2. Income security should be organised as to abstention from work necessitated on
far as possible on the basis of compulsory medical grounds by an acute condition, due to
social insurance, whereby insured persons disease or injury, requiring medical treatment
fulfilling prescribed qualifying conditions are or supervision.
entitled, in consideration of the contributions 10. The contingency for which maternity
they have paid to an insurance institution, to benefit should be paid is loss of earnings due
benefits payable at rates, and in to abstention from work during prescribed
contingencies, defined by law. periods before and after childbirth.
3. Provision for needs not covered by 11. The contingency for which invalidity
compulsory social insurance should be made benefit should be paid is inability to engage in
by social assistance; certain categories of any substantially gainful work by reason of a
persons, particularly dependent children and chronic condition, due to disease or injury, or
needy invalids, aged persons and widows, by reason of the loss of a member or function.
should be entitled to allowances at reasonable 12. The contingency for which old-age
rates according to a prescribed scale. benefit should be paid is the attainment of a
4. Social assistance appropriate to the needs prescribed age, which should be that at which
of the case should be provided for other persons commonly become incapable of
persons in want. efficient work, the incidence of sickness and
invalidity becomes heavy, and unemployment,
Social Insurance
if present, is likely to be permanent.
5. The range of contingencies to be covered
13. The contingency for which survivors’
by compulsory social insurance should
benefits should be paid is the loss of support
embrace all contingencies in which an insured
presumably suffered by the dependants as the
person is prevented from earning his living,
result of the death of the head of the family.
whether by inability to work or inability to obtain
14. The contingency for which unemployment
remunerative work, or in which he dies leaving
benefit should be paid is loss of earnings due to
a dependent family, and should include certain
the unemployment of an insured person who is
associated emergencies, generally
ordinarily employed, capable of regular
experienced, which involved extraordinary
employment in some occupation, and seeking
strain on limited incomes, in so far as they are
suitable employment, or due to part-time
not otherwise covered.
unemployment.
6. Compensation should be provided in
15. Benefits should be provided in respect of
cases of incapacity for work and of death
extraordinary expenses, not otherwise
resulting from employment.
covered, incurred in cases of sickness,
7. In order that the benefits provided by
maternity, invalidity and death.
social insurance may be closely adapted to the
16. The contingency for which compensation
variety of needs, the contingencies covered
for an employment injury should be paid is
should be classified as follows:
traumatic injury or disease resulting from
(a) sickness;
employment and not brought about
(b) maternity; deliberately or by the serious and wilful
(c) invalidity; misconduct of the victim, which results in
(d) old age; temporary or permanent incapacity or death.
86

--- Page 93 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
17. Social insurance should afford protection, 24. Benefits at flat rates may be appropriate
in the contingencies to which they are exposed, for countries where adequate and economical
to all employed and self-employed persons, facilities exist for the population to procure
together with their dependants, in respect of additional protection by voluntary insurance.
whom it is practicable-- Such benefits should be commensurate with
(a) to collect contributions without incurring the earnings of unskilled workers.
disproportionate administrative 25. The right to benefits other than
expenditure; and compensation for employment injuries should
(b) to pay benefits with the necessary co- be subject to contribution conditions designed
operation of medical and employment to prove that the normal status of the claimant
services and with due precautions against is that of an employed or self-employed person
abuse. and to maintain reasonable regularity in the
payment of contributions: Provided that a
18. The employer should be made
person should not be disqualified for benefits
responsible for collecting contributions in
by reason of the failure of his employer duly to
respect of all persons employed by him, and
collect the contributions payable in respect of
should be entitled to deduct the sums due by
him.
them from their remuneration at the time when
it is paid. 26. The cost of benefits, including the cost of
administration, should be distributed among
19. In order to facilitate the efficient
insured persons, employers and taxpayers in
administration of benefits, arrangements
such a way as to be equitable to insured
should be made for the keeping of records of
persons and to avoid hardship to insured
contributions, for ready means of verifying the
persons of small means or any disturbance to
presence of the contingencies which give rise
production.
to benefits, and for a parallel organisation of
medical and employment services with 27. The administration of social insurance
preventive and remedial functions. should be unified or co-ordinated within a
general system of social security services, and
20. Persons employed for remuneration
contributors should, through their
should be insured against the whole range of
organisations, be represented on the bodies
contingencies covered by social insurance as
which determine or advise upon administrative
soon as the collection of contributions in
policy and propose legislation or frame
respect of them can be organised and the
regulations.
necessary arrangements can be made for the
administration of benefit. Social Assistance
21. Self-employed persons should be 28. Society should normally co-operate with
insured against the contingencies of invalidity, parents through general measures of
old age and death, under the same conditions assistance designed to secure the well-being
as employed persons, as soon as the of dependent children.
collection of their contributions can be
29. Invalids, aged persons and widows who
organised. Consideration should be given to
are not receiving social insurance benefits
the possibility of insuring them also against
because they or their husbands, as the case
sickness and maternity necessitating
may be, were not compulsorily insured, and
hospitalisation, sickness which has lasted for
whose incomes do not exceed a prescribed
several months, and extraordinary expenses
level, should be entitled to special
incurred in cases of sickness, maternity,
maintenance allowances at prescribed rates.
invalidity and death.
30. Appropriate allowances in cash or partly
22. Benefits should replace lost earnings,
in cash and partly in kind should be provided
with due regard to family responsibilities, up to
for all persons who are in want and do not
as high a level as is practicable without
require internment for corrective care.
impairing the will to resume work where
ANNEX: Guiding principles accompanied
resumption is a possibility, and without levying
by suggestions for application.
charges on the productive groups so heavy
that output and employment are checked. (The paragraphs in bold type are the general
guiding principles and the subparagraphs are
23. Benefits should be related to the previous
the suggestions for application.)
earnings of the insured person on the basis of
which he has contributed: Provided that any GENERAL
excess of earnings over those prevalent
1. Income security schemes should relieve
among skilled workers may be ignored for the
want and prevent destitution by restoring, up
purpose of determining the rate of benefits, or
to a reasonable level, income which is lost by
portions thereof, financed from sources other
reason of inability to work (including old age)
than the contributions of the insured person.
87

--- Page 94 ---
Building social protection systems
or to obtain remunerative work or by reason of further children being left to be made by
the death of a breadwinner. means of children’s allowances payable
2. Income security should be organised as out of public funds or under contributory
far as possible on the basis of compulsory schemes.
social insurance, whereby insured persons
Sickness
fulfilling prescribed qualifying conditions are
9. The contingency for which sickness
entitled, in consideration of the contributions
benefit should be paid is loss of earnings
they have paid to an insurance institution, to
due to abstention from work necessitated
benefits payable at rates, and in
on medical grounds by an acute condition,
contingencies, defined by law.
due to disease or injury, requiring medical
3. Provision for needs not covered by
treatment or supervision.
compulsory social insurance should be made
(1) The necessity for abstention from work
by social assistance; certain categories of
should be judged, as a rule, with reference to
persons, particularly dependent children and
the previous occupation of the insured person,
needy invalids, aged persons and widows,
which he may be expected to resume.
should be entitled to allowances at reasonable
rates according to a prescribed scale. (2) Benefit need not be paid for the first few
days of a period of sickness, but if sickness
4. Social assistance appropriate to the needs
recurs within a few months, a fresh waiting
of the case should be provided for other
period should not be imposed.
persons in want.
(3) Benefit should preferably be continued
I. SOCIAL INSURANCE until the beneficiary is fit to return to work, dies
or becomes an invalid. If, however, it is
A. Contingencies Covered
considered necessary to limit the duration of
Range of contingencies to be covered
benefit, the maximum period should not be
5. The range of contingencies to be less than 26 weeks for a single case, and
covered by compulsory social insurance provision should be made for extending the
should embrace all contingencies in which duration of benefit in the case of specified
an insured person is prevented from diseases, such as tuberculosis, which often
earning his living, whether by inability to involve lengthy, though curable, sickness:
work or inability to obtain remunerative Provided that at the outset of the operation of
work, or in which he dies leaving a an insurance scheme it may be necessary to
dependent family, and should include provide for a shorter period than 26 weeks.
certain associated emergencies, generally
experienced, which involve extraordinary Maternity
strain on limited incomes, in so far as they 10. The contingency for which maternity
are not otherwise covered. benefit should be paid is loss of earnings
6. Compensation should be provided in due to abstention from work during
cases of incapacity for work and of death prescribed periods before and after
resulting from employment. childbirth.
7. In order that the benefits provided by (1) A woman should have the right to leave
social insurance may be closely adapted to her work if she produces a medical certificate
the variety of needs, the contingencies stating that her confinement will probably take
covered should be classified as follows: place within six weeks, and no woman should
be permitted to work during the six weeks
(a) sickness;
following her confinement.
(b) maternity;
(2) During these periods maternity benefit
(c) invalidity;
should be payable.
(d) old age;
(3) Absence from work for longer periods or
(e) death of breadwinner; on other occasions may be desirable on
(f) unemployment; medical grounds, having regard to the physical
(g) emergency expenses; and condition of the beneficiary and the exigencies
of her work; during any such periods sickness
(h) employment injuries. Provided that
benefits should be payable.
benefits should not be payable at the
same time for more than one of the (4) The payment of maternity benefit may be
following contingencies: invalidity, old made conditional on the utilisation by the
age and unemployment. beneficiary of health services provided for her
and her child.
8. Supplements for each of the first two
children should be added to all benefits Invalidity
payable for loss of earnings, provision for
88

--- Page 95 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
11. The contingency for which invalidity retirement from regular work in any gainful
benefit should be paid is inability to engage occupation; where such retirement is required,
in any substantially gainful work by reason the receipt of casual earnings of relatively
of a chronic condition, due to disease or small amount should not disqualify for old-age
injury, or by reason of the loss of a member benefit.
or function.
Death of Breadwinner
(1) A handicapped person should be
13. The contingency for which survivors’
expected to engage in any occupation which
benefits should be paid is the loss of
may reasonably be indicated for him, having
support presumably suffered by the
regard to his remaining strength and ability, his
dependants as the result of the death of the
previous experience, and any facilities for
head of the family.
training available to him.
(1) Survivors’ benefits should be paid: (a) to
(2) A person for whom such an occupation
the widow of an insured man; (b) for the
can be indicated but is not yet available, and a
children, stepchildren, adopted children and,
person following a training course, should
subject to their previous registration as
receive provisional invalidity benefit, training
dependants, illegitimate children of an insured
benefit or unemployment benefit, if he is
man or of an insured woman who supported
otherwise qualified for it.
the children; and (c) under conditions to be
(3) A person for whom no such occupation
defined by national laws, to an unmarried
can be indicated should receive invalidity
woman with whom the deceased cohabited.
benefit.
(2) Widow’s benefit should be paid to a
(4) Beneficiaries whose permanent inability
widow who has in her care a child for whom
to engage regularly in any gainful occupation
child’s benefit is payable or who, at her
has been confirmed should be allowed to
husband’s death or later, is an invalid or has
supplement their invalidity benefit by casual
attained the minimum age at which old-age
earnings of small amount.
benefit may be claimed; a widow who does not
(5) Where the rate of invalidity benefit is fulfil one of these conditions should be paid
related to the rate of the previous earnings of widow’s benefit for a minimum period of
the insured person, the right to benefit should several months, and thereafter if she is
be admitted if the handicapped person is not unemployed until suitable employment can be
able to earn by ordinary effort as much as one- offered to her, after training if necessary.
third of the normal earnings in his previous
(3) Child’s benefit should be paid for a child
occupation of able-bodied persons having the
who is under the school-leaving age, or who is
same training.
under the age of eighteen and is continuing his
(6) Invalidity benefit should be paid, from the general or vocational education.
date when sickness benefit ceases, for the
whole duration of invalidity, provided that when Unemployment
the beneficiary reaches the age at which old- 14. The contingency for which
age benefit may be claimed the latter may be unemployment benefit should be paid is
substituted for invalidity benefit. loss of earnings due to the unemployment of
an insured person who is ordinarily
Old Age
employed, capable of regular employment in
12. The contingency for which old-age some occupation, and seeking suitable
benefit should be paid is the attainment of employment, or due to part-time
a prescribed age, which should be that at unemployment.
which persons commonly become
(1) Benefit need not be paid for the first few
incapable of efficient work, the incidence of
days of a period of unemployment reckoned
sickness and invalidity becomes heavy,
from the date on which the claim is registered,
and unemployment, if present, is likely to
but if unemployment recurs within a few
be permanent.
months, a fresh waiting period should not be
(1) The minimum age at which old-age imposed.
benefit may be claimed should be fixed at not
(2) Benefit should continue to be paid until
more than sixty-five in the case of men and
suitable employment is offered to the insured
sixty in the case of women: Provided that a
person.
lower age may be fixed for persons who have
(3) During an initial period reasonable in the
worked for many years in arduous or unhealthy
circumstances of the case, only the following
occupations.
should be deemed to be suitable employment:
(2) Payment of old-age benefit may, if the
(a) employment in the usual occupation of the
basic benefit can be considered sufficient for
insured person in a place not involving a
subsistence, be made conditional on
89

--- Page 96 ---
Building social protection systems
change of residence and at the current occurring on the way to or from the place of
rate of wages, as fixed by collective employment.
agreements where applicable; or (2) Where compensation for an employment
(b) another employment acceptable to the injury is payable, the foregoing provisions
insured person. should be subject to appropriate modifications
(4) After the expiration of the initial period: as indicated in the following paragraphs.
(a) employment involving a change of (3) Any disease which occurs frequently only
occupation may be deemed to be suitable to persons employed in certain occupations or
if the employment offered is one which is a poisoning caused by a substance used in
may reasonably be offered to the insured certain occupations, should, if the person
person, having regard to his strength, suffering from such a disease was engaged in
ability, previous experience and any such an occupation, be presumed to be of
facilities for training available to him; occupational origin and give rise to
compensation.
(b) employment involving a change of
residence may be deemed to be suitable if (4) A list of diseases presumed to be of
suitable accommodation is available in the occupational origin should be established and
new place of residence; should be revised from time to time by a simple
procedure.
(c) employment under conditions less
favourable than the insured person (5) In fixing any minimum period of
habitually obtained in his usual occupation employment in the occupation required to
and district may be deemed to be suitable establish the presumption of occupational
if the conditions offered conform to the origin and any maximum period during which
standard generally observed in the the presumption of occupational origin will
occupation and district in which the remain valid after leaving the employment,
employment is offered. regard should be had to the length of time
required for the contraction and manifestation
Emergency Expenses of the disease.
15. Benefits should be provided in (6) Temporary incapacity compensation
respect of extraordinary expenses, not should be payable under conditions similar to
otherwise covered, incurred in cases of those applicable to the payment of sickness
sickness, maternity, invalidity and death. benefit.
(1) Necessary domestic help should be (7) Consideration should be given to the
provided, or benefit paid for hiring it, during the possibility of paying compensation from the
hospitalisation of the mother of dependent first day of temporary incapacity if the
children, if she is an insured woman or the wife incapacity lasts longer than the waiting period.
of an insured man and is not receiving any
(8) Permanent incapacity compensation
benefit in lieu of earnings.
should be payable in respect of the loss or
(2) A lump sum should be paid at childbirth reduction of earning capacity by reason of the
to insured women and the wives of insured loss of a member or function or by reason of a
men towards the cost of a layette and similar chronic condition due to injury or disease.
expenses.
(9) A person who becomes permanently
(3) A special supplement should be paid to incapacitated should be expected to resume
recipients of invalidity or old-age benefit who employment in any occupation which may
need constant attendance. reasonably be indicated for him, having regard
(4) A lump sum should be paid on the death to his remaining strength and ability, his
of an insured person, or of the wife, husband previous experience, and any facilities for
or dependent child of an insured person, training available to him.
towards the cost of burial. (10) If no such employment can be offered,
the person should receive compensation for
Employment Injuries
total incapacity on a definitive or provisional
16. The contingency for which basis.
compensation for an employment injury
(11) If such employment can be offered, but
should be paid is traumatic injury or
the sum which the person is able to earn by
disease resulting from employment and
ordinary effort in the employment is
not brought about deliberately or by the
significantly less than that which he would
serious and wilful misconduct of the victim
probably have earned had he not suffered the
which results in temporary or permanent
injury or disease, he should receive
incapacity or death.
compensation for partial incapacity
(1) Injuries resulting from employment proportionate to the difference in earning
should be deemed to include accidents capacity.
90

--- Page 97 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
(12) Consideration should be given to the (a) to collect contributions without
possibility of paying suitable compensation in incurring disproportionate
every case of loss of a member or function or administrative expenditure; and
disfigurement, even where no reduction of (b) to pay benefits with the necessary co-
capacity can be proved. operation of medical and employment
(13) Persons exposed to the risk of an services and with due precautions
occupational disease of gradual development against abuse.
should be examined periodically, and those for (1) Dependent wives (that is to say, wives
whom a change of occupation is indicated who are not employed or self-employed) and
should be eligible for compensation. dependent children (that is to say, persons
(14) Compensation for permanent who are under the school-leaving age, or who
incapacity, total or partial, should be paid from are under the age of eighteen and are
the time when temporary incapacity continuing their general or vocational
compensation ceases for the whole duration of education) should be protected in virtue of the
permanent incapacity. insurance of their breadwinners.
(15) Persons receiving compensation for
Collection of Contributions
permanent partial incapacity should be able to
18. The employer should be made
qualify for other benefits under the same
responsible for collecting contributions in
conditions as able-bodied persons, where the
respect of all persons employed by him,
rates of such benefits are related to the
and should be entitled to deduct the sums
previous earnings of the insured person.
due by them from their remuneration at the
(16) Where the rates of such benefits are not
time when it is paid.
related to the previous earnings of the insured
(1) Where membership of an occupational
person, a maximum may be fixed for the
association or the possession of a licence is
combined rate of compensation and other
compulsory for any class of self-employed
benefit.
persons, the association or the licensing
(17) Survivors’ compensation should, subject
authority may be made responsible for
to the provisions of the following
collecting contributions from the persons
subparagraphs, be paid to the same
concerned.
dependants as could otherwise qualify for
(2) The national or local authority may be
survivors’ benefits.
made responsible for collecting contributions
(18) A widow should receive compensation
from self-employed persons registered for the
for the whole duration of her widowhood.
purpose of taxation.
(19) A child should receive compensation
(3) Pending the development of agencies to
until the age of eighteen, or twenty-one if he is
enforce payment of contributions, provision
continuing his general or vocational education.
should be made for enabling self-employed
(20) Provision should be made for compen- persons to contribute voluntarily, either as
sating other members of the family of the individuals or as members of associations.
deceased who were dependent upon him,
without prejudice to the claims of the widow Administration of Benefits
and children. 19. In order to facilitate the efficient
(21) The survivors of a person permanently administration of benefits, arrangements
incapacitated in the degree of two-thirds or should be made for the keeping of records
more who dies otherwise than from the effects of contributions, for ready means of
of an employment injury should be entitled to verifying the presence of the contingencies
basic survivors’ benefits, whether or not the which give rise to benefits, and for a
deceased fulfilled the contribution conditions parallel organisation of medical and
for such benefit at the time of his death. employment services with preventive and
remedial functions.
B. Persons Covered
Employed Persons
Range of Persons to Be Covered
20. Persons employed for remuneration
17. Social insurance should afford
should be insured against the whole range
protection, in the contingencies to which
of contingencies covered by social
they are exposed, to all employed and self-
insurance as soon as the collection of
employed persons, together with their
contributions in respect of them can be
dependants, in respect of whom it is
organised and the necessary
practicable--
arrangements can be made for the
administration of benefit.
91

--- Page 98 ---
Building social protection systems
(1) Persons whose employment is so C. Benefit Rates and
irregular, or likely to be so short in its total Contribution Conditions
duration, that they are unlikely to qualify for Benefit Rates
benefit confined to employed persons, may be
22. Benefits should replace lost earnings,
excluded from insurance for such benefits.
with due regard to family responsibilities,
Special provision should be made on behalf of
up to as high a level as is practicable
persons who ordinarily work for a very short
without impairing the will to resume work
period for the same employer.
where resumption is a possibility, and
(2) Apprentices who receive no without levying charges on the productive
remuneration should be insured against groups so heavy that output and
employment injuries, and, as from the date at employment are checked.
which they would have completed their
23. Benefits should be related to the
apprenticeship for their trade, compensation
previous earnings of the insured person on
based on the wages current for workers in that
the basis of which he has contributed:
trade should become payable.
Provided that any excess of earnings over
Self-Employed Persons those prevalent among skilled workers
may be ignored for the purpose of
21. Self-employed persons should be
determining the rate of benefits, or portions
insured against the contingencies of
thereof, financed from sources other than
invalidity, old age and death under the
the contributions of the insured person.
same conditions as employed persons as
soon as the collection of their 24. Benefits at flat rates may be
contributions can be organised. appropriate for countries where adequate
Consideration should be given to the and economical facilities exist for the
possibility of insuring them also against population to procure additional protection
sickness and maternity necessitating by voluntary insurance. Such benefits
hospitalisation, sickness which has lasted should be commensurate with the earnings
for several months, and extraordinary of unskilled workers.
expenses incurred in cases of sickness, (1) Sickness and unemployment benefits
maternity, invalidity and death. should, in the case of unskilled workers, be not
(1) Members of the employer’s family living less than 40 per cent. of the previous net
in his house, other than his dependent wife or earnings of the insured person if he has no
dependent children, should be insured against dependants, or 60 per cent. thereof if he has a
the said contingencies on the basis of either dependent wife or housekeeper for his
their actual wages or, if these cannot be children; for each of not more than two
ascertained, the market value of their services; dependent children, an additional 10 per cent.
the employer should be responsible for the of such earnings, less the amount of any
payment of contributions in respect of such children’s allowances for these children,
persons. should be payable.
(2) Self-employed persons whose earnings (2) In the case of workers with high earnings,
are ordinarily so low that they can be the foregoing proportions of benefit to previous
presumed to be a merely subsidiary or casual earnings may be somewhat reduced.
source of income, or that payment of the (3) Maternity benefit should in all cases be
minimum contribution would be a hardship for sufficient for the full and healthy maintenance
them, should be excluded provisionally from of the mother and her child; it should be not
insurance and referred for counsel to the less than 100 per cent. of the current net wage
employment service or to any special service for female unskilled workers or 75 per cent. of
that may exist for promoting the welfare of the the previous net earnings of the beneficiary,
occupational group to which they may belong. whichever is the greater, but may be reduced
(3) Persons who, after completing the by the amount of any child’s allowance
contribution period prescribed as a payable in respect of the child.
qualification for invalidity and survivors’ (4) Basic invalidity and old-age benefits
benefits, cease to be compulsorily insured, should be not less than 30 per cent. of the
either as employed or as self-employed current wage commonly recognised for male
persons, should be given the option, to be unskilled workers in the district in which the
exercised within a limited period, of continuing beneficiary resides, if the beneficiary has no
their insurance under the same conditions as dependants, or 45 per cent. thereof if he has a
self-employed persons, subject to such dependent wife who would be qualified for
modifications as may be prescribed. widow’s benefit or a housekeeper for his
children; for each of not more than two
dependent children, an additional 10 per cent.
92

--- Page 99 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
of such wage, less the amount of any of a prescribed period, such as two years,
children’s allowances for these children, completed before the contingency occurs.
should be payable. (2) The contribution conditions for maternity
(5) Basic widow’s benefit should be not less benefit may include the requirement that the
than 30 per cent. of the current minimum wage first contribution shall have been paid at least
commonly recognised for male unskilled ten months before the expected date of
workers in the district in which the beneficiary confinement, but even though the contribution
resides; for each of not more than three conditions are not fulfilled, maternity benefit at
dependent children, child’s benefit at the rate the minimum rate should be paid during the
of 10 per cent. of such wage, less the amount period of compulsory abstention from work
of any children’s allowances for these children, after confinement, if the claimant’s normal
should be payable. status appears, after consideration of the case,
(6) In the case of an orphan, basic child’s to be that of an employed person.
benefit should be not less than 20 per cent. of (3) The contribution conditions for basic
the current minimum wage commonly invalidity, old-age and survivors’ benefits may
recognised for male unskilled workers, less the include the requirement that contributions shall
amount of any child’s allowance payable in have been paid in respect of at least two-fifths
respect of the orphan. of a prescribed period, such as five years,
(7) A portion of every contribution additional completed before the contingency occurs;
to those paid as a qualification for basic payment of contributions in respect of not less
invalidity, old-age and survivors’ benefits may than three-quarters of a prescribed period,
be credited to the insured person for the such as ten years, or of any longer period
purpose of increasing the benefits provided for which has elapsed since entry into insurance,
in sub-paragraphs (4), (5) and (6). should be recognised as an alternative
qualification for benefit.
(8) In every case in which retirement is
deferred beyond the minimum age at which (4) The contribution conditions for old-age
old-age benefit could have been claimed, benefit may include the requirement that the
basic old-age benefit should be equitably first contribution shall have been paid at least
increased. five years before the claim for benefit is made.
(9) Compensation for employment injuries (5) The right to benefit may be suspended
should not be less than two-thirds of the wages where an insured person wilfully fails to pay
lost, or estimated to have been lost, as the any contribution due by him in respect of any
result of the injury. period of self-employment or to pay any
penalty imposed for late payment of
(10) Such compensation should take the
contributions.
form of periodical payments, except in cases
in which the competent authority is satisfied (6) The insurance status of an insured
that the payment of a lump sum will be more person at the date when he becomes entitled
advantageous to the beneficiary. to invalidity or old-age benefit should be
maintained during the currency of such benefit
(11) Periodical payments in respect of
for the purposes of ensuring him, in the event
permanent incapacity and death should be
of recovery from invalidity, as full protection
adjusted currently to significant changes in the
under the scheme as he was entitled to on the
wage level in the insured person’s previous
occurrence of the invalidity, and of entitling his
occupation.
survivors to survivors’ benefits.
Contribution Conditions
25. The right to benefits other than D. Distribution of Cost
compensation for employment injuries should 26. The cost of benefits, including the
be subject to contribution conditions designed cost of administration, should be
to prove that the normal status of the claimant distributed among insured persons,
is that of an employed or self-employed person employers and taxpayers, in such a way as
and to maintain reasonable regularity in the to be equitable to insured persons and to
payment of contributions: Provided that a avoid hardship to insured persons of small
person shall not be disqualified for benefits by means or any disturbance to production.
reason of the failure of his employer duly to (1) The contribution of an insured person
collect the contributions payable in respect of should not exceed such proportion of his
him. earnings taken into account for reckoning
(1) The contribution conditions for sickness, benefits as, applied to the estimated average
maternity and unemployment benefits may earnings of all persons insured against the
include the requirement that contributions shall same contingencies, would yield a contribution
have been paid in respect of at least a quarter income the probable present value of which
would equal the probable present value of the
93

--- Page 100 ---
Building social protection systems
benefits to which they may become entitled through their organisations, be
(excluding compensation for employment represented on the bodies which determine
injuries). or advise upon administrative policy and
(2) In accordance with this principle the propose legislation or frame regulations.
contributions of employed persons and self- (1) Social insurance should be administered
employed persons for the same benefits may, under the direction of a single authority,
as a rule, represent the same proportion of subject, in federal countries, to the distribution
their respective earnings. of legislative competence; this authority should
(3) A minimum absolute rate, based on the be associated with the authorities
minimum rate of earnings which may be administering social assistance, medical care
deemed to be indicative of substantial gainful services and employment services in a co-
work, may be prescribed for the insured ordinating body for matters of common
person’s contribution with respect to benefits interest, such as the certification of inability to
the whole or part of which does not vary with work or to obtain work.
the rate of previous earnings. (2) The unified administration of social
(4) Employers should be required to insurance should be compatible with the
contribute, particularly by subsidising the operation of separate insurance schemes,
insurance of low-wage earners, not less than compulsory or voluntary in character,
half the total cost of benefits confined to providing supplementary, but not alternative,
employed persons, excluding compensation benefits for certain occupational groups, such
for employment injuries. as miners and seamen, public officials, the
staffs of individual undertakings and members
(5) The entire cost of compensation for
of mutual benefit societies.
employment injuries should be contributed by
employers. (3) The law and regulations relating to social
insurance should be drafted in such a way that
(6) Consideration should be given to the
beneficiaries and contributors can easily
possibility of applying some method of merit
understand their rights and duties.
rating in the calculation of contributions in
respect of compensation for employment (4) In devising procedures to be followed by
injuries. beneficiaries and contributors, simplicity
should be a primary consideration.
(7) The rates of contribution of insured
persons and employers should be kept as (5) Central and regional advisory councils,
stable as possible, and for this purpose a representing such bodies as trade unions,
stabilisation fund should be constituted. employers’ associations, chambers of
commerce, farmers’ associations, women’s
(8) The cost of benefits which cannot
associations and child protection societies,
properly be met by contributions should be
should be established for the purpose of
covered by the community.
making recommendations for the amendment
(9) Among the elements of cost which may
of the law and administrative methods, and
be charged to the community may be
generally of maintaining contact between the
mentioned:
administration of social insurance and groups
(a) the contribution deficit resulting from of contributors and beneficiaries.
bringing persons into insurance when
(6) Employers and workers should be closely
already elderly;
associated with the administration of
(b) the contingent liability involved in compensation for employment injuries,
guaranteeing the payment of basic particularly in connection with the prevention of
invalidity, old-age and survivors’ benefits accidents and occupational diseases and with
and the payment of adequate maternity merit rating.
benefit;
(7) Claimants should have a right of appeal
(c) the liability resulting from the continued in case of dispute with the administrative
payment of unemployment benefit when authority concerning such questions as the
unemployment persists at an excessive right to benefit and the rate thereof.
level; and
(8) Appeals should preferably be referred to
(d) subsidies to the insurance of self- special tribunals, which should include
employed persons of small means. referees who are experts in social insurance
law, assisted by assessors, representative of
E. Administration
the group to which the claimant belongs, and,
27. The administration of social where employed persons are concerned, by
insurance should be unified or co- representatives of employers also.
ordinated within a general system of social
(9) In any dispute concerning liability to
security services, and contributors should,
insurance or the rate of contribution, an
94

--- Page 101 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
employed or self-employed person, and, a prescribed level, should be entitled to
where an employer’s contribution is in special maintenance allowances at
question, an employer should have a right of prescribed rates.
appeal. (1) The persons who should be entitled to
(10) Provision for uniformity of interpretation maintenance allowances should include:
should be assured by a superior appeal (a) persons belonging to occupational groups,
tribunal. or residing in districts to which social
insurance does not yet apply, or has not
II. SOCIAL ASSISTANCE
yet applied for as long as the qualifying
A. Maintenance of Children
period for basic invalidity, old-age or
28. Society should normally co-operate survivors’ benefits, as the case may be,
with parents through general measures of and the widows and dependent children of
assistance designed to secure the well- such persons; and
being of dependent children.
(b) persons who are already invalids at the
(1) Public subsidies in kind or in cash or in time when they would normally enter
both should be established in order to assure insurance.
the healthy nurture of children, help to maintain
(2) Maintenance allowances should be
large families, and complete the provision
sufficient for full, long-term maintenance; they
made for children through social insurance.
should vary with the current cost of living, and
(2) Where the purpose in view is to assure may vary as between urban and rural areas.
the healthy nurture of children, subsidies
(3) Maintenance allowances should be paid
should take the form of such advantages as
at the full rate to persons whose other income
free or below-cost infants’ food and school
does not exceed a prescribed level and at
meals and below-cost dwellings for families
reduced rates in other cases.
with several children.
(4) The provisions of the present
(3) Where the purpose in view is to help to
Recommendation defining the contingencies
maintain large families or to complete the
in which invalidity, old-age and survivors’
provision made for children by subsidies in
benefits should be paid should be applied, in
kind and through social insurance, subsidies
so far as they are relevant, to maintenance
should take the form of children’s allowances.
allowances.
(4) Such allowances should be payable,
irrespective of the parents’ income, according C. General Assistance
to a prescribed scale, which should represent 30. Appropriate allowances in cash or
a substantial contribution to the cost of partly in cash and partly in kind should be
maintaining a child, should allow for the higher provided for all persons who are in want
cost of maintaining older children, and should, and do not require internment for
as a minimum, be granted to all children for corrective care.
whom no provision is made through social (1) The range of cases in which the amount
insurance. of the allowance is entirely discretionary
(5) Society as a whole should accept should be gradually narrowed as the result of
responsibility for the maintenance of the improved classification of cases of want
dependent children in so far as parental and establishment of budgets corresponding
responsibility for maintaining them cannot be to the cost of maintenance in short-term and
enforced. long-term indigency.
(2) The grant of allowance may be subject to
B. Maintenance of Needy Invalids,
compliance by the recipient with directions
Aged Persons and Widows
given by the authorities administering medical
29. Invalids, aged persons and widows
or employment services in order that the
who are not receiving social insurance
assistance may yield its greatest constructive
benefits because they or their husbands, as
effect.
the case may be, were not compulsorily
insured, and whose incomes do not exceed
R069 – Medical Care Recommendation, 1944
Preamble Having been convened at Philadelphia by the
The General Conference of the International Governing Body of the International Labour
Labour Organisation,
95

--- Page 102 ---
Building social protection systems
Office, and having met in its Twenty-sixth administrations and institutions acting in
Session on 20 April 1944, and concert with the International Labour
Having decided upon the adoption of certain Office, and
proposals with regard to the question of – by the participation of the International
medical care services, which is included in the Labour Office in an advisory capacity in
fourth item on the agenda of the Session, and the framing of social insurance schemes in
Having determined that these proposals shall a number of countries and by other
take the form of a Recommendation, measures; and
adopts this twelfth day of May of the year one Whereas some Members have not taken such
thousand nine hundred and forty-four, the steps as are within their competence to
following Recommendation, which may be improve the health of the people by the
cited as the Medical Care Recommendation, extension of medical facilities, the
1944: development of public health programmes, the
spread of health education, and the
Whereas the Atlantic Charter contemplates
improvement of nutrition and housing,
the fullest collaboration between all nations in
although their need in that respect is greatest,
the economic field with the object of securing
and it is highly desirable that such Members
for all improved labour standards, economic
take all steps as soon as possible to reach the
advancement and social security; and
international minimum standards and to
Whereas the Conference of the International
develop these standards; and
Labour Organisation, by a Resolution adopted
Whereas it is now desirable to take further
on 5 November 1941, endorsed this principle
steps for the improvement and unification of
of the Atlantic Charter and pledged the full co-
medical care services, the extension of such
operation of the International Labour
services to all workers and their families,
Organisation in its implementation; and
including rural populations and the self-
Whereas the availability of adequate medical
employed, and the elimination of inequitable
care is an essential element in social security;
anomalies, without prejudice to the right of any
and
beneficiary of the medical care service who so
Whereas the International Labour desires to arrange privately at his own
Organisation has promoted the development expense for medical care; and
of medical care services:
Whereas the formulation of certain general
– by the inclusion of requirements relating to principles which should be followed by
medical care in the Workmen’s Members of the Organisation in developing
Compensation (Accidents) Convention, their medical care services along these lines
1925, and the Sickness Insurance (Industry, will contribute to this end;
etc.) and (Agriculture) Conventions, 1927,
The Conference recommends the Members of
– by the communication to the Members of the Organisation to apply the following
the Organisation by the Governing Body of principles, as rapidly as national conditions
the conclusions of meetings of experts allow, in developing their medical care
relating to public health and health services with a view to the implementation of
insurance in periods of economic the fifth principle of the Atlantic Charter, and to
depression, the economical administration report to the International Labour Office, as
of medical and pharmaceutical benefits requested by the Governing Body, concerning
under sickness insurance schemes, and the measures taken to give effect to these
guiding principles for curative and principles:
preventive action by invalidity, old-age and
widows’ and orphans’ insurance, I. General
– by the adoption by the First and Second ESSENTIAL FEATURES
Labour Conferences of American States of OF A MEDICAL CARE SERVICE
the Resolutions constituting the Inter- 1. A medical care service should meet the
American Social Insurance Code, by the need of the individual for care by members of
participation of a delegation of the the medical and allied professions and for such
Governing Body in the First Inter- other facilities as are provided at medical
American Conference on Social Security institutions:
which adopted the Declaration of Santiago (a) with a view to restoring the individual’s
de Chile, and by the approval by the health, preventing the further development
Governing Body of the Statute of the Inter- of disease and alleviating suffering, when
American Conference on Social Security, he is afflicted by ill health (curative care);
established as a permanent agency of co- and
operation between social security
96

--- Page 103 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
(b) with a view to protecting and improving his 9. Where the service is limited to a section of
health (preventive care). the population or to a specified area, or where
2. The nature and extent of the care provided the contributory mechanism already exists for
by the service should be defined by law. other branches of social insurance and it is
possible ultimately to bring under the
3. The authorities or bodies responsible for
insurance scheme the whole or the majority of
the administration of the service should
the population, social insurance may be
provide medical care for its beneficiaries by
appropriate.
securing the services of members of the
medical and allied professions and by 10. Where the whole of the population is to
arranging for hospital and other institutional be covered by the service and it is desired to
services. integrate medical care with general health
services, a public service may be appropriate.
4. The cost of the service should be met
collectively by regular periodical payments COVERAGE THROUGH A SOCIAL
which may take the form of social insurance INSURANCE MEDICAL CARE SERVICE
contributions or of taxes, or of both.
11. Where medical care is provided through
FORMS OF MEDICAL CARE SERVICE a social insurance medical care service, all
members of the community should have the
5. Medical care should be provided either
right to care as insured persons or, pending
through a social insurance medical care
their inclusion in the scope of insurance,
service with supplementary provision by way
should have the right to receive care at the
of social assistance to meet the requirements
expense of the competent authority when
of needy persons not yet covered by social
unable to provide it for themselves.
insurance, or through a public medical care
service. 12. All adult members of the community (that
is to say, all persons other than children as
6. Where medical care is provided through a
defined in Paragraph 15) should be required to
social insurance medical care service--
pay insurance contributions if their income is
(a) every insured contributor, the dependent
not below the subsistence level. The
wife or husband and dependent children of
dependent wife or husband of a contributor
every such contributor, such other
should be insured in virtue of the contribution
dependants as may be prescribed by
of her or his breadwinner, without any addition
national laws or regulations, and every
on that account.
other person insured by virtue of
13. Other adults who prove that their income
contributions paid on his behalf, should be
is below the subsistence level, including
entitled to all care provided by the service;
indigents, should be entitled to care as insured
(b) care for persons not yet insured should be
persons, the contribution being paid on their
provided by way of social assistance if
behalf by the competent authority. Rules
they are unable to obtain it at their own
defining the subsistence level in each country
expense; and
should be laid down by the competent
(c) the service should be financed by authority.
contributions from insured persons, from
14. If and so long as adults unable to pay a
their employers, and by subsidies from
contribution are not insured as provided for in
public funds.
Paragraph 13, they should receive care at the
7. Where medical care is provided through a expense of the competent authority.
public medical care service--
15. All children (that is to say, all persons
(a) every member of the community should be who are under the age of sixteen years, or
entitled to all care provided by the service; such higher age as may be prescribed, or who
(b) the service should be financed out of funds are dependent on others for regular support
raised either by a progressive tax while continuing their general or vocational
specifically imposed for the purpose of education) should be insured in virtue of the
financing the medical care service or of contributions paid by or on behalf of adult
financing all health services, or from insured persons in general, and no additional
general revenue. contribution should be payable on their behalf
by their parents or guardians.
II. Persons covered
16. If and so long as children are not insured
COMPLETE COVERAGE as provided for in Paragraph 15, because the
8. The medical care service should cover all service does not yet extend to the whole
members of the community, whether or not population, they should be insured in virtue of
they are gainfully occupied. the contribution paid by or on behalf of their
father or mother without any additional
97

--- Page 104 ---
Building social protection systems
contribution being payable on their behalf. 23. Beneficiaries should be able to obtain
Children for whom medical care is not so care at the centres or offices provided,
provided should, in case of need, receive it at wherever they happen to be when the need
the expense of the competent authority. arises, whether at their place of residence or
17. Where any person is insured under a elsewhere within the total area in which the
scheme of social insurance for cash benefits service is available, irrespective of their
or is receiving benefit under such a scheme, membership in any particular insurance
he and his qualified dependants, as defined in institution, arrears in contributions or of other
Paragraph 6, should also be insured under the factors unrelated to health.
medical care service. 24. The administration of the medical care
service should be unified for appropriate health
COVERAGE THROUGH A PUBLIC
areas sufficiently large for a self-contained and
MEDICAL CARE SERVICE
well-balanced service, and should be centrally
18. Where medical care is provided through supervised.
a public medical care service, the provision of
25. Where the medical care service covers
care should not depend on any qualifying
only a section of the population or is at present
conditions, such as payment of taxes or
administered by different types of insurance
compliance with a means test, and all
institutions and authorities, the institutions and
beneficiaries should have an equal right to the
authorities concerned should provide care for
care provided.
their beneficiaries by securing collectively the
III. The Provision of Medical Care and services of members of the medical and allied
Its Co-Ordination with General Health professions, and by the joint establishment or
Services maintenance of health centres and other
medical institutions, pending the regional and
RANGE OF SERVICE
national unification of the services.
19. Complete preventive and curative care
26. Arrangements should be made by the
should be constantly available, rationally
administration of the service for securing
organised and, so far as possible, co-ordinated
adequate hospital and other residential
with general health services.
accommodation and care, either by contracts
CONSTANT AVAILABILITY with existing public and approved private
OF COMPLETE CARE institutions, or by the establishment and
maintenance of appropriate institutions.
20. Complete preventive and curative care
should be available at any time and place to all RATIONAL ORGANISATION
members of the community covered by the OF MEDICAL CARE SERVICE
service, on the same conditions, without any
27. The optimum of medical care should be
hindrance or barrier of an administrative,
made readily available through an
financial or political nature, or otherwise
organisation that ensures the greatest
unrelated to their health.
possible economy and efficiency by the
21. The care afforded should comprise both pooling of knowledge, staff, equipment and
general-practitioner and specialist out- and in- other resources and by close contact and
patient care, including domiciliary visiting; collaboration among all participating members
dental care; nursing care at home or in hospital of the medical and allied professions and
or other medical institutions; the care given by agencies.
qualified midwives and other maternity
28. The wholehearted participation of the
services at home or in hospital; maintenance
greatest possible number of members of the
in hospitals, convalescent homes, sanatoria or
medical and allied professions is essential for
other medical institutions; so far as possible,
the success of any national medical care
the requisite dental, pharmaceutical and other
service. The numbers of general practitioners,
medical or surgical supplies, including artificial
specialists, dentists, nurses and members of
limbs; and the care furnished by such other
other professions within the service should be
professions as may at any time be legally
adapted to the distribution and the needs of the
recognised as belonging to the allied
beneficiaries.
professions.
29. Complete diagnostic and treatment
22. All care and supplies should be available
facilities, including laboratory and X-ray
at any time and without time limit, when and as
services, should be available to the general
long as they are needed, subject only to the
practitioner, and all specialist advice and care,
doctor’s judgment and to such reasonable
as well as nursing, maternity, pharmaceutical
limitations as may be imposed by the technical
and other auxiliary services, and residential
organisation of the service.
accommodation, should be at the disposal of
98

--- Page 105 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
the general practitioner for the use of his insurance institutions jointly, should establish
patients. a system of medical or health centres which
30. Complete and up-to-date technical affords all care, including hospital
equipment for all branches of specialist accommodation at the main centres, and, so
treatment, including dental care, should be far as possible, transport arrangements; such
available, and specialists should have at their centres may be required more particularly in
disposal all necessary hospital and research sparsely settled areas with a scattered insured
facilities, and auxiliary out-patient services population.
such as nursing, through the agency of the 38. Where the medical care service covers
general practitioner. too small a section for complete health centres
31. To achieve these aims, care should to be an economical means of serving its
preferably be furnished by group practice at beneficiaries, and existing facilities for
centres of various kinds working in effective specialist treatment in the area are
relation with hospitals. inadequate, it may be appropriate for the
insurance institution, or the institutions jointly,
32. Pending the establishment of, and
to maintain posts at which specialists attend
experiments with, group practice at medical or
beneficiaries as required.
health centres, it would be appropriate to
obtain care for beneficiaries from members of 39. Where the medical care service covers a
the medical and allied professions practising at relatively small section of the population
their own offices. concentrated in an area with extensive private
practice, it may be appropriate for the
33. Where the medical care service covers
members of the medical and allied professions
the majority of the population, medical or
participating in the service to collaborate at
health centres may appropriately be built,
centres rented, equipped and administered by
equipped and operated by the authority
the members, at which both beneficiaries of
administering the service in the health area, in
the service and private patients receive care.
one of the forms indicated in Paragraphs 34,
35 and 36. 40. Where the medical care service covers
only a small number of beneficiaries who are
34. Where no adequate facilities exist or
scattered over a populated area with adequate
where a system of hospitals with out-patient
existing facilities, and voluntary group practice
departments for general-practitioner and
as provided for in Paragraph 39 is not feasible,
specialist treatment already obtains in the
beneficiaries may appropriately receive care
health area at the time when the medical care
from members of the medical and allied
service is introduced, hospitals may
professions practising at their own offices, and
appropriately be established as, or developed
at public and approved private hospitals and
into, centres providing all kinds of in- and out-
other medical institutions.
patient care and complemented by local
outposts for general-practitioner care and for 41. Travelling clinics in motor vans or aircraft,
auxiliary services. equipped for first aid, dental treatment, general
examination and possibly other health
35. Where general practice is well developed
services such as maternal and infant health
outside the hospital system while specialists
services, should be provided for serving areas
are mainly consultants and working at
with a scattered population and remote from
hospitals, it may be appropriate to establish
towns or cities, and arrangements should be
medical or health centres for non-residential
made for the free conveyance of patients to
general-practitioner care and auxiliary
centres and hospitals.
services, and to centralise specialist in-patient
and out-patient care at hospitals. COLLABORATION WITH GENERAL
36. Where general and specialist practice HEALTH SERVICES
are well developed outside the hospital 42. There should be available to the
system, it may be appropriate to establish beneficiaries of the medical care service all
medical or health centres for all non-residential general health services, being services
treatment, general-practitioner and specialist, providing means for the whole community
and all auxiliary services, while cases needing and/or groups of individuals to promote and
residential care are directed from the centres protect their health while it is not yet
to the hospitals. threatened or known to be threatened,
37. Where the medical care service does not whether such services be given by members
cover the majority of the population but has a of the medical and allied professions or
substantial number of beneficiaries, and otherwise.
existing hospital and other medical facilities 43. The medical care service should be
are inadequate, the insurance institution, or provided in close co-ordination with general
99

--- Page 106 ---
Building social protection systems
health services, either by means of close dentist, subject to giving notice within a
collaboration of the social insurance prescribed time, for good reasons, such as
institutions providing medical care and the lack of personal contact and confidence.
authorities administering the general health 51. The general practitioner or the dentist
services, or by combining medical care and participating in the service should have the
general health services in one public service. right to accept or refuse a client, but may not
44. Local co-ordination of medical care and accept a number in excess of a prescribed
general health services should be aimed at maximum nor refuse such clients as have not
either by establishing medical care centres in made their own choice and are assigned to
proximity to the headquarters for general him by the service through impartial methods.
health services, or by establishing common 52. The care given by specialists and
centres as headquarters for all or most health members of allied professions, such as
services. nurses, midwives, masseurs and others,
45. The members of the medical and allied should be available on the recommendation,
professions participating in the medical care and through the agency, of the beneficiary’s
service and working at health centres may family doctor who should take reasonable
appropriately undertake such general health account of the patient’s wishes if several
care as can with advantage be given by the members of the specialty or other profession
same staff, including immunisation, are available at the centre or within a
examination of school children and other reasonable distance of the patient’s home.
groups, advice to expectant mothers and Special provision should be made for the
mothers with infants, and other care of a like availability of the specialist when requested by
nature. the patient though not recommended by the
family doctor.
IV. THE QUALITY OF SERVICE
53. Residential care should be made
OPTIMUM STANDARD
available on the recommendation of the
46. The medical care service should aim at beneficiary’s family doctor, or on the advice of
providing the highest possible standard of the specialist, if any, who has been consulted.
care, due regard being paid to the importance
54. If residential care is provided at the
of the doctor-patient relationship and the
centre to which the family doctor or specialist
professional and personal responsibility of the
is attached, the patient should preferably be
doctor, while safeguarding both the interests of
attended in the hospital by his own family
the beneficiaries and those of the professions
doctor or the specialist to whom he was
participating.
referred.
CHOICE OF DOCTOR AND 55. Arrangements for the general
CONTINUITY OF CARE practitioners or dentists at a centre to be
47. The beneficiary should have the right to consulted by appointment should be made
make an initial choice, among the general whenever practicable.
practitioners at the disposal of the service
WORKING CONDITIONS AND STATUS
within a reasonable distance from his home, of
OF DOCTORS AND MEMBERS OF ALLIED
the doctor by whom he wishes to be attended
PROFESSIONS
in a permanent capacity (family doctor); he
56. The working conditions of doctors and
should have the same right of choice for his
members of allied professions participating in
children. These principles should also apply to
the service should be designed to relieve the
the choice of a dentist as family dentist.
doctor or member from financial anxiety by
48. Where care is provided at or from health
providing adequate income during work, leave
centres, the beneficiary should have the right
and illness and in retirement, and pensions to
to choose his centre within a reasonable
his survivors, without restricting his professional
distance from his home and to select for
discretion otherwise than by professional
himself or his children a doctor and a dentist
supervision, and should not be such as to
among the general practitioners and dentists
distract his attention from the maintenance and
working at this centre.
improvement of the health of the beneficiaries.
49. Where there is no centre, the beneficiary
57. General practitioners, specialists and
should have the right to select his family doctor
dentists, working for a medical care service
and dentist among the participating general
covering the whole or a large majority of the
practitioners and dentists whose office is within
population, may appropriately be employed
a reasonable distance from his home.
whole time for a salary, with adequate
50. The beneficiary should have the right provision for leave, sickness, old age and
subsequently to change his family doctor or
100

--- Page 107 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
death, if the medical profession is adequately STANDARD OF PROFESSIONAL SKILL
represented on the body employing them. AND KNOWLEDGE
58. Where general practitioners or dentists, 66. The highest possible standard of skill and
engaged in private practice, undertake part- knowledge should be achieved and
time work for a medical care service with a maintained for the professions participating
sufficient number of beneficiaries, it may be both by requiring high standards of education,
appropriate to pay them a fixed basic amount training and licensing and by keeping up to
per year, including provision for leave, date and developing the skill and knowledge of
sickness, old age and death, and increased if those engaged in the service.
desired by a capitation fee for each person or 67. Doctors participating in the service
family in the doctor’s or dentist’s charge. should be required to have an adequate
59. Specialists engaged in private practice training in social medicine.
who work part time for a medical care service 68. Students of the medical and dental
with a considerable number of beneficiaries professions should, before being admitted as
may appropriately be paid an amount fully qualified doctors or dentists to the service,
proportionate to the time devoted to such be required to work as assistants at health
service (part-time salary). centres or offices, especially in rural areas,
60. Doctors and dentists engaged in private under the supervision and direction of more
practice who work part time for a medical care experienced practitioners.
service with few beneficiaries only may 69. A minimum period as hospital assistant
appropriately be paid fees for services should be prescribed among the qualifications
rendered. for every doctor entering the service.
61. Among the members of allied 70. Doctors wishing to furnish specialist
professions participating in the service, those service should be required to have certificates
rendering personal care may appropriately be of competence for their specialty.
employed whole time for salary, with adequate
71. Doctors and dentists participating should
provision for leave, sickness, old age and
be required periodically to attend post-
death, while members furnishing supplies
graduate courses organised or approved for
should be paid in accordance with adequate
this purpose.
tariffs.
72. Adequate periods of apprenticeship at
62. Working conditions for members of the
hospitals or health centres should be
medical and allied professions participating in
prescribed for members of allied professions,
the service should be uniform throughout the
and post-graduate courses should be
country or for all sections covered by the
organised and attendance periodically
service, and agreed on with the representative
required for those participating in the service.
bodies of the profession, subject only to such
73. Adequate facilities for teaching and
variations as may be necessitated by
research should be made available at the
differences in the exigencies of the service.
hospitals administered by or working with the
63. Provisions should be made for the
medical care service.
submission of complaints by beneficiaries
74. Professional education and research
concerning the care received, and by
should be promoted with the financial and legal
members of the medical or allied professions
support of the State.
concerning their relations with the
administration of the service, to appropriate V. Financing of Medical Care Service
arbitration bodies under conditions affording
RAISING OF FUNDS UNDER SOCIAL
adequate guarantees to all parties concerned.
INSURANCE SERVICE
64. The professional supervision of the
75. The maximum contribution that may be
members of the medical and allied professions
charged to an insured person should not
working for the service should be entrusted to
exceed such proportion of his income as,
bodies predominantly composed of represen-
applied to the income of all insured persons,
tatives of the professions participating, with
would yield an income equal to the probable
adequate provision for disciplinary measures.
total cost of the medical care service, including
65. Where, in the proceedings referred to in the cost of care given to qualified dependants
Paragraph 63, a member of the medical or as defined in Paragraph 6.
allied professions working for the service is
76. The contribution paid by an insured
deemed to have neglected his professional
person should be such part of the maximum
duties, the arbitration body should refer the
contribution as can be borne without hardship.
matter to the supervisory body referred to in
Paragraph 64.
101

--- Page 108 ---
Building social protection systems
77. Employers should be required to pay part 90. The special tax may appropriately be
of the maximum contribution on behalf of collected by the national income tax authorities
persons employed by them. or, where there is no national income tax, by
78. Persons whose income does not exceed authorities responsible for collecting local
the subsistence level should not be required to taxes.
pay an insurance contribution. Equitable
RAISING OF CAPITAL FUNDS
contributions should be paid by the public
91. In addition to providing the normal
authority on their behalf: Provided that in the
resources for financing the medical care
case of employed persons, such contributions
service, measures should be taken to utilise
may be paid wholly or partly by their
the assets of social insurance institutions, or
employers.
funds raised by other means, for financing the
79. The cost of the medical care service not
extraordinary expenditure necessitated by the
covered by contributions should be borne by
extension and improvement of the service,
taxpayers.
more particularly by the building or equipment
80. Contributions in respect of employed of hospitals and medical centres.
persons may appropriately be collected by
their employers. VI. SUPERVISION AND ADMINISTRATION
OF MEDICAL CARE SERVICE
81. Where membership of an occupational
association or the possession of a licence is UNITY OF HEALTH SERVICES AND
compulsory for any class of self-employed DEMOCRATIC CONTROL
persons, the association or the licensing 92. All medical care and general health
authority may be made responsible for services should be centrally supervised and
collecting contributions from the persons should be administered by health areas as
concerned. defined in Paragraph 24, and the beneficiaries
82. The national or local authority may be of the medical care service, as well as the
made responsible for collecting contributions medical and allied professions concerned,
from self-employed persons registered for the should have a voice in the administration of the
purpose of taxation. service.
83. Where a scheme of social insurance for UNIFICATION OF CENTRAL
cash benefits is in operation, contributions ADMINISTRATION
both under such scheme and under the 93. A central authority, representative of the
medical care service may appropriately be community, should be responsible for
collected together. formulating the health policy or policies and for
supervising all medical care and general
RAISING OF FUNDS UNDER PUBLIC
health services, subject to consultation of, and
MEDICAL CARE SERVICE
collaboration with, the medical and allied
84. The cost of the medical care service professions on all professional matters, and to
should be met out of public funds. consultation of the beneficiaries on matters of
85. Where the whole population is covered policy and administration affecting the medical
by the medical care service and all health care service.
services are under unified central and area 94. Where the medical care service covers
administration, the medical care service may the whole or the majority of the population and
appropriately be financed out of general a central government agency supervises or
revenue. administers all medical care and general
86. Where the administration of the medical health services, beneficiaries may
care service is separate from that of general appropriately be deemed to be represented by
health services, it may be appropriate to finance the head of the agency.
the medical care service by a special tax. 95. The central government agency should
87. The special tax should be paid into a keep in touch with the beneficiaries through
separate fund reserved for the purpose of advisory bodies comprising representatives of
financing the medical care service. organisations of the different sections of the
88. The special tax should be progressively population, such as trade unions, employers’
graded and should be designed to yield a associations, chambers of commerce,
return sufficient for financing the medical care farmers’ associations, women’s associations
service. and child protection societies.
89. Persons whose income does not exceed 96. Where the medical care service covers
the subsistence level should not be required to only a section of the population, and a central
pay the tax. government agency supervises all medical
care and general health services,
102

--- Page 109 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
representatives of the insured persons should purpose as provided for in Paragraph 24, and
participate in the supervision, preferably the medical care service in the area should be
through advisory committees, as regards all administered by or with the advice of bodies
matters of policy affecting the medical care representative of the beneficiaries and partly
service. composed of, or assisted by, representatives
97. The central government agency should of the medical and allied professions, so as to
consult the representatives of the medical and safeguard the interests of the beneficiaries and
allied professions, preferably through advisory the professions, and secure the technical
committees, on all questions relating to the efficiency of the service and the professional
working conditions of the members of the freedom of the participating doctors.
professions participating, and on all other 105. Where the medical care service covers
matters primarily of a professional nature, the whole or the majority of the population in
more particularly on the preparation of laws the health area, all medical care and general
and regulations concerning the nature, extent health services may appropriately be
and provision of the care furnished under the administered by one area authority.
service. 106. Where, in this event, the area
98. Where the medical care service covers government administers the health services on
the whole or the majority of the population and behalf of the beneficiaries, the medical and
a representative body supervises or allied professions should participate in the
administers all medical care and general administration of the medical care service,
health services, beneficiaries should be preferably through technical committees
represented on such body, either directly or elected by the professions or appointed by the
indirectly. area or central government from among
99. In this event, the medical and allied nominees of the professions concerned.
professions should be represented on the 107. Where a medical care service covering
representative body, preferably in numbers the whole or the majority of the population in
equal to those of the beneficiaries or the the health area is administered by a
government as the case may be; the representative body, the area government, on
professional members should be elected by behalf of the beneficiaries, and the medical
the profession concerned, or nominated by and allied professions in the area, should be
their representatives and appointed by the represented on such body, preferably in equal
central government. numbers.
100. Where the medical care service covers 108. Where the medical service is
the whole or the majority of the population and administered by area offices or officers of the
a corporate body of experts established by central authority, the medical and allied
legislation or by charter supervises or professions in the area should participate in
administers all medical care and general the administration, preferably through
health services, such body may appropriately executive technical committees, elected or
consist of an equal number of members of the appointed in the manner provided for in
medical and allied professions and of qualified Paragraph 106.
laymen. 109. Whatever the form of the area
101. The professional members of the expert administration, the authority administering the
body should be appointed by the central medical care service should keep in constant
government from among candidates touch with the beneficiaries in the area through
nominated by the representatives of the advisory bodies, elected by representative
medical and allied professions. organisations of the different sections of the
102. The representative executive body or population, in the manner provided for in
the expert body supervising or administering Paragraph 95.
medical care and general health services 110. Where the social insurance medical
should be responsible to the government for its care service covers only a section of the
general policy. population, administration of that service may
103. In the case of a federal State, the appropriately be entrusted to a representative
central authority referred to in the preceding executive body responsible to the government,
Paragraphs may be either a federal or a state and comprising representatives of the
authority. beneficiaries, of the medical and allied
professions participating in the service and of
LOCAL ADMINISTRATION the employers.
104. Local administration of medical care
and general health services should be unified
or co-ordinated within areas formed for the
103

--- Page 110 ---
Building social protection systems
ADMINISTRATION OF HEALTH UNITS referred to in Paragraph 63 should have a right
111. Health units owned and operated by the of appeal from the decisions of such body to
medical care service, such as medical or an independent tribunal.
health centres or hospitals, should be 113. Members of the medical and allied
administered under democratic control with professions against whom disciplinary
adequate provisions for the participation of the measures have been taken by the supervisory
medical profession, or wholly or predominantly body referred to in Paragraph 64 should have
by doctors elected by, or appointed after a right of appeal from the decisions of such
consultation of, the members of the medical body to an independent tribunal.
and allied professions participating in the 114. Where the supervisory body referred to
medical care service, in co-operation with all in Paragraph 64 takes no disciplinary action on
the doctors working at the unit. a matter referred to it by the arbitration body,
in accordance with Paragraph 65, the
RIGHT OF APPEAL
interested parties should have a right of appeal
112. Beneficiaries or members of the
to an independent tribunal.
medical or allied professions who have
submitted complaints to the arbitration body
R121 – Employment Injury Benefits Recommendation, 1964
Preamble Convention, 1964, from the protection provided
The General Conference of the International for in that Convention.
Labour Organisation, 3. (1) Each Member should, subject to
Having been convened at Geneva by the prescribed conditions, secure the provision of
Governing Body of the International Labour employment injury or analogous benefits, if
Office, and having met in its Forty-eighth necessary by stages and/or through voluntary
Session on 17 June 1964, and insurance, to:
Having decided upon the adoption of certain (a) members of co-operatives who are
proposals with regard to benefits in the case of engaged in the production of goods or the
industrial accidents and occupational provision of services;
diseases, which is the fifth item on the agenda (b) prescribed categories of self-employed
of the session, and persons, in particular persons owning and
Having determined that these proposals shall actively engaged in the operation of small-
take the form of a Recommendation scale businesses or farms;
supplementing the Employment Injury Benefits (c) certain categories of persons working
Convention, 1964, without pay, which should include:
adopts this eighth day of July of the year one (i) persons in training, undergoing an
thousand nine hundred and sixty-four, the occupational or trade test or otherwise
following Recommendation, which may be preparing for their future employment,
cited as the Employment Injury Benefits including pupils and students;
Recommendation, 1964: (ii) members of volunteer bodies charged
1. In this Recommendation: with combating natural disasters, with
(a) the term legislation includes any social saving lives and property or with
security rules as well as laws and maintaining law and order;
regulations; (iii) other categories of persons not
(b) the term prescribed means determined otherwise covered who are active in
by or in virtue of national legislation; the public interest or engaged in civic
or benevolent pursuits, such as
(c) the term dependent refers to a state of
persons volunteering their services for
dependency which is presumed to exist in
public office, social service or
prescribed cases.
hospitals;
2. Each Member should extend the
(iv) prisoners and other detained persons
application of its legislation providing for
doing work which has been required or
employment injury benefits, if necessary by
approved by the competent
stages, to any categories of employees which
authorities.
may have been excepted in virtue of Article 4,
paragraph 2, of the Employment Injury Benefits
104

--- Page 111 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
(2) The financial resources of voluntary should be permitted of the occupational origin
insurance for the categories referred to in of diseases not so listed and of diseases listed
subparagraph (1) of this Paragraph should when they manifest themselves under
not be provided from contributions intended to conditions different from those establishing a
finance the compulsory schemes for presumption of their occupational origin.
employees. 8. Cash benefits in respect of incapacity for
4. Special schemes applicable to seafarers, work should be paid from the first day in each
including seafishermen, and to public servants case of suspension of earnings.
should provide benefits in case of an 9. The rates of cash benefits in respect of
employment injury which are not less temporary or initial incapacity for work, or in
favourable than those provided for in the respect of total loss of earning capacity likely
Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964. to be permanent, or corresponding loss of
5. Each Member should, under prescribed faculty, should be:
conditions, treat the following as industrial (a) not less than two-thirds of the injured
accidents: person’s earnings: Provided that a
(a) accidents, regardless of their cause, maximum limit may be prescribed for the
sustained during working hours at or near rate of benefit or for the earnings taken into
the place of work or at any place where the account for the calculation of the benefit;
worker would not have been except for his or
employment; (b) where such benefits are provided at flat
(b) accidents sustained within reasonable rates, not less than two-thirds of the
periods before and after working hours in average earnings of persons employed in
connection with transporting, cleaning, the major group of economic activities with
preparing, securing, conserving, storing the largest number of economically active
and packing work tools or clothes; male persons.
(c) accidents sustained while on the direct 10. (1) The cash benefit payable by reason
way between the place of work and-- of loss of earning capacity likely to be
(i) the employee’s principal or secondary permanent, or corresponding loss of faculty,
residence; or should take the form of a periodical payment
for the duration of such loss in all cases in
(ii) the place where the employee usually
which the degree of loss equals at least 25 per
takes his meals; or
cent.
(iii) the place where he usually receives his
(2) In cases in which the degree of loss of
remuneration.
earning capacity likely to be permanent, or
6. Each Member should, under prescribed
corresponding loss of faculty, is less than 25
conditions, regard diseases known to arise out
per cent. a lump sum may be paid in lieu of a
of the exposure to substances or dangerous
periodical payment. Such lump sum should
conditions in processes, trades or occupations
bear an equitable relationship to periodical
as occupational diseases.
payments and should not be less than the
(2) Unless proof to the contrary is brought, periodical payments which would be due in
there should be a presumption of the respect of a period of three years.
occupational origin of such diseases where the
11. Provision should be made to defray the
employee:
reasonable cost of the constant help or
(a) was exposed for at least a specified attendance of another person in cases in
period; and which the injured person requires such
(b) has developed symptoms of the disease services; alternatively, the periodical payment
within a specified period following should be increased by either a prescribed
termination of the last employment percentage or a prescribed amount.
involving exposure. 12. Where an employment injury entails
(3) When prescribing and bringing up to date unemployability or disfigurement and this is not
national lists of occupational diseases, taken fully into account in the evaluation of the
Members should give special consideration to loss sustained by the injured person,
any list of occupational diseases which may supplementary or special benefits should be
from time to time be approved by the provided.
Governing Body of the International Labour 13. Where the periodical payments made to
Office. the surviving spouse and children are less than
7. Where national legislation contains a list the maximum amounts prescribed, a
establishing a presumption of occupational periodical payment should be made to the
origin in respect of certain diseases, proof
105

--- Page 112 ---
Building social protection systems
following categories of persons if they were total loss of earning capacity likely to be
dependent on the deceased for support: permanent, or corresponding loss of faculty.
(a) parents; 15. The rates of cash benefits currently
(b) brothers and sisters; payable pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Article 14 and to paragraph 1 of Article 18 of
(c) grandchildren.
the Employment Injury Benefits Convention,
14. Where a maximum limit upon the total
1964, should be periodically adjusted, taking
benefits payable to all the survivors is
account of changes in the general level of
prescribed, such maximum should be not less
earnings or the cost of living.
than the rate of benefits payable in respect of
R131 – Invalidity, Old-Age and Survivors’ Benefits Recommendation,
1967
Preamble (e) the term widow means a woman who was
The General Conference of the International dependent on her husband at the time of
Labour Organisation, his death;
Having been convened at Geneva by the (f) the term child covers:
Governing Body of the International Labour (i) a child under school-leaving age or
Office, and having met in its Fifty-first Session under 15 years of age, whichever is
on 7 June 1967, and the higher; and
Having decided upon the adoption of certain (ii) a child under a prescribed age higher
proposals with regard to the revision of the than that specified in subclause (i) of
Old-Age Insurance (Industry, etc.) Convention, this clause and who is an apprentice
1933, the Old-Age Insurance (Agriculture) or student or has a chronic illness or
Convention, 1933, the Invalidity Insurance infirmity disabling him for any gainful
(Industry, etc.) Convention, 1933, the Invalidity activity, under prescribed conditions;
Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1933, the
(g) the term qualifying period means a
Survivors’ Insurance (Industry, etc.)
period of contribution, or a period of
Convention, 1933, and the Survivors’
employment, or a period of residence, or
Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1933,
any combination thereof, as may be
which is the fourth item on the agenda of the
prescribed;
session, and
(h) the term contributory benefits means
Having determined that these proposals shall
benefits the grant of which depends on
take the form of a Recommendation
direct financial participation by the persons
supplementing the Invalidity, Old-Age and
protected or their employer or on a
Survivors’ Benefits Convention, 1967,
qualifying period of occupational activity.
adopts this twenty-ninth day of June of the
year one thousand nine hundred and sixty- II. Persons Protected
seven, the following Recommendation, which 2. Members should extend the application of
may be cited as the Invalidity, Old-Age and their legislation providing for invalidity and old-
Survivors’ Benefits Recommendation, 1967: age benefits, by stages if necessary, and
under appropriate conditions:
I. General Provisions
(a) to persons whose employment is of a
1. In this Recommendation:
casual nature;
(a) the term legislation includes any social
(b) to all economically active persons.
security rules as well as laws and
3. Members should extend the application of
regulations;
their legislation providing for survivors’
(b) the term prescribed means determined
benefits, by stages if necessary, and under
by or in virtue of national legislation;
appropriate conditions, to the wives, children
(c) the term dependent refers to a state of and, as may be prescribed, other dependants
dependency which is presumed to exist in of:
prescribed cases;
(a) persons whose employment is of a casual
(d) the term wife means a wife who is nature;
dependent on her husband;
(b) all economically active persons.
106

--- Page 113 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
III. Contingencies Covered completed, prior to the contingency, in
4. The definition of invalidity should take into accordance with prescribed rules, a qualifying
account incapacity to engage in an activity period which may be five years of contribution,
involving substantial gain. employment or residence.
5. A reduced benefit should be provided in 14. The qualifying period for an invalidity
respect of partial invalidity, under prescribed benefit should be eliminated or reduced, under
conditions. prescribed conditions, in the case of young
workers who have not attained a prescribed
6. With a view to protecting persons who are
age.
over a prescribed age but have not attained
pensionable age Members should provide 15. The qualifying period for an invalidity
benefits, under prescribed conditions, for: benefit should be eliminated or reduced, under
prescribed conditions, where the invalidity is
(a) persons whose unfitness for work is
due to an accident.
established or presumed;
16. An old-age benefit should be secured at
(b) persons who have been involuntarily
least to a person protected who has
unemployed for a prescribed period; or
completed, prior to the contingency, in
(c) any other prescribed categories of
accordance with prescribed rules, a qualifying
persons for which such a measure is
period which may be 20 years of contribution
justified on social grounds.
or employment or 15 years of residence.
7. The pensionable age should where
17. Where an old-age benefit is conditional
appropriate be lowered, under prescribed
upon a minimum period of contribution or
conditions, in respect of any prescribed
employment, a reduced old-age benefit should
categories of persons for which such a
be secured at least to a person protected who
measure is justified on social grounds.
has completed, prior to the contingency, in
8. A reduced old-age benefit should be accordance with prescribed rules, a qualifying
payable under prescribed conditions to a person period of ten years of contribution or
protected who, by reason only of his advanced employment.
age when the legislation giving effect to the
18. Where an old-age benefit is conditional
Invalidity, Old-Age and Survivors’ Benefits
upon a minimum period of contribution or
Convention, 1967, comes into force, has not
employment, the amount of the old-age benefit
satisfied the qualifying conditions prescribed,
should be increased under prescribed
unless a benefit in conformity with the provisions
conditions:
of paragraph 1, 3 or 4 of Article 18 of that
(a) where the grant of the benefit is conditional
Convention is secured to such person at an age
upon retirement from a prescribed gainful
higher than the normal pensionable age.
activity, if a person who has reached the
9. Where the widow’s right to a survivors’
pensionable age and has fulfilled the
benefit is conditional on the attainment of a
qualifying conditions of contribution or
prescribed age, a widow below that age should
employment prescribed for a benefit
be given every assistance and all facilities,
defers his retirement;
including training and placement facilities and
(b) where the grant of an old-age benefit is not
the provision of benefit where appropriate, to
conditional upon retirement from a
enable her to obtain suitable employment.
prescribed gainful activity, if a person who
10. A widow whose husband had fulfilled the
has reached the pensionable age and has
prescribed qualifying conditions, but who does
fulfilled the qualifying conditions
not herself fulfil the conditions for a survivors’
prescribed for a benefit defers his claim to
benefit, should be entitled to an allowance for
benefit.
a specified period, or a lump-sum death
19. A survivors’ benefit should be secured at
benefit.
least on the qualifying conditions provided for
11. A contributory old-age benefit, or a
in Paragraph 13 of this Recommendation for
contributory survivors’ benefit payable to a
an invalidity benefit.
widow, should not be suspended after a
20. Where the grant of invalidity, old-age and
prescribed age solely because the person
survivors’ benefits depends on a period of
concerned is gainfully occupied.
contribution or employment, at least periods of
12. An invalid and dependent widower
incapacity due to sickness, accident or
should, under prescribed conditions, enjoy the
maternity and periods of involuntary
same entitlements to survivors’ benefit as a
unemployment, in respect of which benefit was
widow.
paid, should be assimilated, under prescribed
13. An invalidity benefit should be secured at conditions, to periods of contribution or
least to a person protected who has employment in calculating the qualifying
107

--- Page 114 ---
Building social protection systems
period that has been fulfilled by the person benefits, so as to ensure a minimum standard
concerned. of living.
21. Where the grant of invalidity, old-age and 24. The amount of invalidity, old-age and
survivors’ benefits depends on a qualifying survivors’ benefits should be periodically
period of contribution or employment, periods adjusted taking account of changes in the
of compulsory military service should be general level of earnings or the cost of living.
assimilated, under prescribed conditions, to 25. Increments in benefits or supplementary
periods of contribution or employment in or special benefits should be provided, under
calculating the qualifying period that has been prescribed conditions, for pensioners requiring
fulfilled by the person concerned. the constant help or attendance of another
person.
IV. Benefits
26. Benefits to which a person protected
22. The percentages indicated in the
would otherwise be entitled should not be
Schedule appended to Part V of the Invalidity,
suspended solely because the person
Old-Age and Survivors’ Benefits Convention,
concerned is absent from the territory of the
1967, should be increased by at least ten
Member.
points.
23. National legislation should fix minimum
amounts of invalidity, old-age and survivors’
R134 – Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Recommendation, 1969
Preamble (d) the term dependent refers to a state of
The General Conference of the International dependency which is presumed to exist in
Labour Organisation, prescribed cases;
Having been convened at Geneva by the (e) the term wife means a wife who is
Governing Body of the International Labour dependent on her husband;
Office, and having met in its Fifty-third Session (f) the term child covers:
on 4 June 1969, and
(i) a child under school-leaving age or
Having decided upon the adoption of certain under 15 years of age, whichever is
proposals with regard to the revision of the the higher; and
Sickness Insurance (Industry) Convention,
(ii) a child under a prescribed age higher
1927, and the Sickness Insurance (Agriculture)
than that specified in subclause (i) of
Convention, 1927, which is the fifth item on the
this clause and who is an apprentice
agenda of the session, and
or student or has a chronic illness or
Having determined that these proposals shall infirmity disabling him for any gainful
take the form of a Recommendation activity, under prescribed conditions;
supplementing the Medical Care and Sickness
(g) the term qualifying period means a period
Benefits Convention, 1969,
of contribution, or a period of employment,
adopts this twenty-fifth day of June of the year or a period of residence, or any combination
one thousand nine hundred and sixty-nine, the thereof, as may be prescribed;
following Recommendation, which may be
(h) the term sickness means any morbid
cited as the Medical Care and Sickness
condition, whatever its cause;
Benefits Recommendation, 1969:
(i) the term medical care includes allied benefits.
1. In this Recommendation:
2. Members should extend the application of
(a) the term legislation includes any social
their legislation providing for the medical care
security rules as well as laws and
referred to in Article 8 of the Medical Care and
regulations;
Sickness Benefits Convention, 1969, by
(b) the term prescribed means determined stages, if necessary, and under appropriate
by or in virtue of national legislation; conditions:
(c) the term residence means ordinary (a) to persons whose employment is of a
residence in the territory of the Member casual nature;
and the term resident means a person
(b) to members of the employer’s family living
ordinarily resident in the territory of the
in his house, in respect of their work for
Member;
him;
(c) to all economically active persons;
108

--- Page 115 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
(d) to the wives and children of the persons absence from work involving loss of earnings
specified in clauses (a) to (c) of this which is justified on the ground that:
Paragraph; and (a) he is required to undergo curative or
(e) to all residents. preventive medical care;
3. The medical care referred to in Article 8 of (b) he is isolated for the purpose of
the Medical Care and Sickness Benefits quarantine;
Convention, 1969, should include: (c) he is placed under medical supervision for
(a) the supply of medical aids, such as the purpose of rehabilitation; or
eyeglasses; and (d) he is on convalescent leave.
(b) services for convalescents. 9. A reasonable opportunity to obtain
4. The right to the medical care referred to in necessary medical treatment during normal
Article 8 of the Medical Care and Sickness working hours should be afforded to a person
Benefits Convention, 1969, should not be protected who suffers from a sickness which
made subject to a qualifying period. does not fully incapacitate him from attending
5. Where a beneficiary ceases to belong to to his normal work.
the categories of persons protected, the 10. Appropriate provision should be made to
medical care referred to in Article 8 of the help a person protected who is economically
Medical Care and Sickness Benefits active and who has to care for a sick
Convention, 1969, should be provided dependant.
throughout the contingency for a case of 11. Members should extend the application
sickness which started while he belonged to of their legislation providing for the sickness
the said categories. benefit referred to in Article 18 of the Medical
6. Under prescribed conditions, benefits Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, 1969,
provided for in Parts II and III of the Medical by stages, if necessary, and under appropriate
Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, 1969, conditions:
should continue to be provided to a person (a) to persons whose employment is of a
protected who is temporarily absent from the casual nature;
territory of the Member.
(b) to members of the employer’s family living
7. A beneficiary or, where appropriate, his in his house, in respect of their work for
breadwinner should not be required to share in him; and
the cost of the medical care referred to in
(c) to all economically active persons.
Article 8 of the Medical Care and Sickness
12. The percentage specified in Article 22,
Benefits Convention, 1969:
paragraph 1, and Article 23, paragraph 1, of the
(a) if his means do not exceed prescribed
Medical Care and Sickness Benefits
amounts;
Convention, 1969, should be increased by at
(b) in respect of diseases recognised as least 6 2/3 points.
entailing prolonged care.
13. Cash benefit in respect of incapacity for
8. A person protected for sickness benefit work resulting from a sickness and involving
should be granted a cash benefit in cases of suspension of earnings should be paid
throughout the contingency.
R167 – Maintenance of Social Security Rights Recommendation, 1983
Preamble and of acquired rights, and by the Maintenance
of Social Rights Convention, 1982, and
The General Conference of the International
Labour Organisation, Considering it necessary to promote the
conclusion of bilateral or multilateral social
Having been convened at Geneva by the
security instruments between Members of the
Governing Body of the International Labour
International Labour Organisation, as well as
Office, and having met in its Sixty-ninth
the international co-ordination of these
Session on 1 June 1983, and
instruments, in particular for the application of
Recalling the principles established by the
the Equality of Treatment (Social Security)
Equality of Treatment (Social Security)
Convention, 1962, and of the Maintenance of
Convention, 1962, which relate not only to
Social Security Rights Convention, 1982 and
equality of treatment but also to the
Having decided upon the adoption of certain
maintenance of rights in course of acquisition
proposals with regard to the maintenance of
109

--- Page 116 ---
Building social protection systems
rights in social security, which is the fifth item to refugees and stateless persons resident in
on the agenda of the session, and the territory of any Member, the benefit of the
Having determined that these proposals shall provisions of that instrument relating to:
take the form of an international Recommen- (a) the determination of the applicable
dation; legislation;
adopts this twentieth day of June of the year (b) the maintenance of rights in course of
one thousand nine hundred eighty-three, the acquisition;
following Recommendation, which may be (c) the maintenance of acquired rights and
cited as the Maintenance of Social Security provision of benefits abroad.
Rights Recommendation, 1983:
3. Members should conclude among
1. In this Recommendation: themselves and with the States concerned
(a) the term Member means any State appropriate administrative or financial
Member of the International Labour arrangements to remove possible obstacles to
Organisation; the provision of invalidity, old-age and
(b) the term legislation includes any social survivors’ benefits, pensions in respect of
security rules as well as laws and employment injuries and death grants, to
regulations; which a right is acquired under their legislation,
to beneficiaries who are nationals of a Member
(c) the term refugee has the meaning
or refugees or stateless persons resident
assigned to it in Article 1 of the Convention
abroad.
relating to the Status of Refugees of 28
July 1951 and in paragraph 2 of Article 1 4. Where one of the Members bound by a
of the Protocol relating to the Status of bilateral or multilateral social security
Refugees of 31 January 1967, without instrument has no legislation in force in respect
geographical limitation; of unemployment benefit or family benefit, the
Members so bound should endeavour to
(d) the term stateless person has the
conclude between themselves appropriate
meaning assigned to it in Article 1 of the
arrangements to compensate equitably the
Convention relating to the Status of
loss of the absence of rights resulting
Stateless Persons of 28 September 1954;
therefrom for persons who transfer their
(e) the term members of the family means
residence from the territory of a Member which
persons defined or recognised as such or
has legislation in force in respect of the
as members of the household by the
benefits concerned to the territory of a Member
legislation under which benefits are
which has no such legislation, or for the
awarded or provided, as appropriate, or
members of the family of persons entitled to
persons determined by mutual agreement
family benefit under the legislation of the first
between the Members concerned; where
Member when these members of the family
persons are defined or recognised as
are resident in the territory of the second
members of the family or as members of
Member.
the household under the relevant
5. Where, in application of the Equality of
legislation only on the condition that they
Treatment (Social Security) Convention, 1962,
are living with the person concerned, this
the Maintenance of Social Security Rights
condition shall be deemed to be satisfied
Convention, 1982, or any bilateral or
in respect of persons who obtain their main
multilateral social security instrument, cash
support from the person concerned;
benefits have to be paid to beneficiaries
(f) the term survivors means persons
residing in the territory of a State other than the
defined or recognised as such by the
one in whose territory the institution liable for
legislation under which benefits are
the payment is located, this institution should,
awarded; where persons are defined or
whenever possible, pay the beneficiary direct,
recognised as survivors under the relevant
particularly in the case of invalidity, old-age
legislation only on the condition that they
and survivors’ benefits and also pensions in
were living with the deceased, this
respect of employment injuries. The transfer of
condition shall be deemed to be satisfied
these benefits and pensions should be made
in respect of persons who obtained their
with the minimum delay, so that beneficiaries
main support from the deceased;
may have them at their disposal as quickly as
(g) the term residence means ordinary possible. In the case of indirect payment, the
residence. institution acting as intermediary in the country
2. Members bound by a bilateral or of residence of the beneficiary should do its
multilateral social security instrument should utmost to see that the latter shall receive
endeavour by mutual agreement to extend to promptly the benefits due.
the nationals of any other Member, as well as
110

--- Page 117 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
6. Members concerned should endeavour to (e) the term competent institution means:
conclude bilateral and multilateral social (i) in relation to a social insurance
security instruments covering the nine scheme, either the institution with
branches of social security mentioned in which the person concerned is insured
paragraph 1 of Article 2 of the Maintenance of when he claims benefit, or an
Rights in Social Security Convention, 1982; to institution from which he is entitled to
develop the co-ordination of bilateral or receive benefit or would be entitled to
multilateral social security instruments by receive benefit if he were resident in
which they are respectively bound; and to the territory of the Contracting Party
conclude an international agreement to this where that institution is situated, or the
effect, with the assistance of the International institution designated by the
Labour Office, where appropriate. competent authority of the Contracting
7. For the application of the provisions of Party concerned;
Articles 6 to 8 of the Equality of Treatment (ii) in relation to a scheme other than a
(Social Security) Convention, 1962, and of social insurance scheme, or in relation
paragraph 1 of Article 4 of the Maintenance of to a family benefits scheme, the
Social Security Rights Convention, 1982, institution designated by the
Members bound b by these Conventions competent authority of the Contracting
should take account, as appropriate, of the Party concerned;
model provisions and the model agreement
(iii) in relation to a scheme consisting of
annexed to this Recommendation, designed
obligations imposed on employers
for the conclusion of bilateral or multilateral
either the employer or his insurer or, in
social security instruments and for their
default thereof, the body or authority
coordination.
designated by the competent authority
8. Members concerned, even if they are not of the Contracting Party concerned;
yet bound by at least one of the Conventions
(f) the term provident fund means a
referred to in Paragraph 7 of this
compulsory savings institution;
Recommendation, should endeavour to
(g) the term members of the family means
participate in the international system provided
persons defined or recognised as such or
for by the Maintenance of Social Security
as members of the household by the
Rights Convention, 1982, taking account, as
legislation under which benefits are
appropriate, of the model provisions and the
awarded or provided, as appropriate, or
model agreement annexed to this
persons determined by mutual agreement
Recommendation.
between the Contracting Parties
ANNEX I concerned; where persons are defined or
Model Provisions for the Conclusion recognised as members of the family or as
of Bilateral or Multilateral Social Security members of the household under the
Instruments relevant legislation only on the condition
I. DEFINITIONS that they are living with the person
concerned, this condition shall be deemed
Article 1
to be satisfied in respect of persons who
For the purpose of these model provisions:
obtain their main support from the person
(a) the term legislation includes any social concerned;
security rules as well as laws and
(h) the term survivors means persons
regulations;
defined or recognised as such by the
(b) the term competent State means a legislation under which benefits are
Contracting Party under whose legislation awarded; where persons are defined or
the person concerned can claim benefit; recognised as survivors under the relevant
(c) the term competent authority means the legislation only on the condition that they
minister, ministers or other corresponding were living with the deceased, this
authority responsible for the social security condition shall be deemed to be satisfied
schemes in all or any part of the territory of in respect of persons who obtained their
each Contracting Party; main support from the deceased;
(d) the term institution means any body or (i) the term residence means ordinary
authority directly responsible for applying residence;
all or part of the legislation of a Contracting (j) the term temporary residence means a
Party; temporary stay;
(k) the term institution of the place of
residence means the institutional
111

--- Page 118 ---
Building social protection systems
empowered, under the Contracting Party’s family allowances, granted to offset
legislation applied by it, to provide the family maintenance costs, with the
benefits in question at the place of exception of increases in, or
residence or, where no such institution supplements to, pensions provided for
exists, the institution designated by the the members of the family of the
competent authority of the Contracting recipients of such pensions;
Party concerned; (ii) the term family allowances means
(l) the term institution of the place of periodical cash benefits granted
temporary residence means the according to the number and age of
institution empowered, under the children;
Contracting Party’s legislation applied by (r) the term death grant means any lump
it, to provide the benefits in question at the sum payable in the event of death other
place of temporary residence of the person than the lump-sum benefits mentioned in
concerned or, where no such institution subparagraph (p)(ii) of this article;
exists, the institution designated by the
(s) the term non-contributory applies to
competent authority of the Contracting
benefits the award of which does not
Party concerned;
depend on direct financial participation by
(m) the term periods of insurance means the persons protected or by their
periods of contribution, employment, employer, or on a qualifying period of
occupational activity or residence which occupational activity, and to any scheme
are defined or recognised as periods of which exclusively awards such benefits.
insurance by the legislation under which
they were completed, and such other II. APPLICABLE LEGISLATION
periods as are regarded by that legislation Article 2
as equivalent to periods of insurance; 1. Notwithstanding the general rule relating
(n) the terms periods of employment and to the application of the legislation of the
periods of occupational activity mean Contracting Party in the territory of which the
periods defined or recognised as such by employed persons are employed (Note: see
the legislation under which they were paragraph 1 (a) of Article 5 of the Maintenance
completed and such other periods as are of Social Security Rights Convention, 1982)
regarded by that legislation as equivalent the legislation applicable to employed persons
to periods of employment or periods of referred to in this paragraph is determined in
occupational activity respectively; accordance with the following provisions:
(o) the term periods of residence means (a)
periods of residence defined or recognised (i) employed persons who are employed
as such by the legislation under which they in the territory of a Contracting Party
were completed; by an undertaking which is their
(p) the term benefits means all benefits in regular employer and who are sent by
kind and in cash provided in respect of the that undertaking to work for it in the
contingency concerned, including death territory of another Contracting Party
grants, and: shall remain subject to the legislation
(i) as benefits in kind, benefits aimed at of the first Party, provided that the
the prevention of any contingency expected duration of the work does not
covered by social security, physical exceed the time-limit determined by
rehabilitation and vocational mutual agreement between the
rehabilitation; Contracting Parties concerned and
that they are not sent to replace other
(ii) as benefits in cash, all components
employed persons who have
thereof provided out of public funds, and
completed their period of secondment
all increases, revaluation allowances of
abroad;
supplementary allowances, and any
benefits awarded for the purpose of (ii) if the work to be carried out continues
maintaining or improving earning because of unforeseeable
capacity, lump-sum benefits which may circumstances for a period longer than
be paid in lieu of pensions and, where originally foreseen and exceeding the
applicable, any payments made by way determined time-limit, the legislation of
of refund of contributions; the first Party shall remain applicable
until the work is completed, subject to the
(q)
consent of the competent authority of the
(i) the term family benefits means any
second Party or of the body designated
benefits in kind or in cash, including
by it;
112

--- Page 119 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
(b) whose territory the undertaking has its
(i) employed persons who are employed registered office.
in international transport in the territory 2. Notwithstanding the general rule relating
of two or more Contracting Parties as to the application of the legislation of the
travelling personnel in the service of Contracting Party in the territory of which self-
an undertaking which has its employed persons engage in an occupation,
registered office in the territory of a (Note: see paragraph 1 (b) of Article 5 of the
Contracting Party and which, on Maintenance of Social Security Rights
behalf of others or on its own account, Convention, 1982 ) the legislation applicable to
transports passengers or goods by the self-employed persons referred to in this
rail, road, air or inland waterway, shall paragraph is determined in accordance with
be subject to the legislation of the the following provisions --
latter Party; (a) self-employed persons who reside in the
(ii) however, if they are employed by a territory of one Contracting Party and
branch or permanent agency which engage in their occupation in the territory
the said undertaking has in the of another Contracting Party shall be
territory of a Contracting Party other subject to the legislation of the first Party :
than the Party in whose territory it has (i) if the second Party has no legislation
its registered office, they shall be applicable to them, or
subject to the legislation of the
(ii) if, under the legislation of each of the
Contracting Party in whose territory
Parties concerned, self-employed
the branch or permanent agency is
persons are subject to that legislation
situated;
solely by reason of the fact that they
(iii) if they are employed mainly in the are resident in the territory of those
territory of the Contracting Party Parties;
where they are resident, they shall be
(b) self-employed persons who normally
subject to the legislation of that Party,
engage in their occupation in the territory
even if the undertaking which employs
of two or more Contracting Parties shall be
them has neither its registered office
subject to the legislation of the Contracting
nor a branch or permanent agency in
Party in whose territory they are resident,
that territory;
if they work partly in that territory or if,
(c) under that legislation, they are subject to it
(i) employed persons other than those in solely by reason of the fact that they are
international transport who normally resident in the territory of that Party;
follow their occupation in the territory (c) where the self-employed persons referred
of two or more Contracting Parties to in the preceding subparagraph do not
shall be subject to the legislation of the work partly in the territory of the
Contracting Party in whose territory Contracting Party where they are resident,
they reside if their occupation is or where, under the legislation of that
carried on partly in that territory or if Party, they are not subject to that
they are employed by several legislation solely by reason of their
undertakings or by several employers residence, or where that Party has no
having their registered offices or their legislation applicable to them, they shall be
places of residence in the territory of subject to the legislation mutually agreed
different Contracting Parties; upon by the Contracting Parties
(ii) in other cases they shall be subject to concerned or by their competent
the legislation of the Contracting Party authorities.
in whose territory the undertaking 3. Where by virtue of the preceding
which employs them has its registered paragraphs of this article, a worker is subject
office or their employer has his place to the legislation of a Contracting Party in
of residence; whose territory he is neither employed nor
(d) employed persons who are employed in engaged in an occupation nor resident, that
the territory of a Contracting Party by an legislation shall be applicable to him as if he
undertaking which has its registered office were employed or engaged in an occupation
in the territory of another Contracting Party or resident in the territory of that Party, as the
and whose premises lie astride the case may be.
common frontier of the Contracting Parties 4. The competent authorities of the
concerned shall be subject to the Contracting Parties may, by mutual
legislation of the Contracting Party in agreement, make other provisions than those
113

--- Page 120 ---
Building social protection systems
of the preceding paragraphs of this Article, in 3. Invalidity, Old-age and Survivors’
the interest of the persons concerned. Benefit
Article 5
III. MAINTENANCE OF RIGHTS
IN COURSE OF ACQUISITION 1. Where the legislation of a Contracting
Party makes the acquisition, maintenance or
A. ADDING TOGETHER PERIODS
recovery of the right to benefit conditional upon
1. Medical Care, Sickness Benefit,
the completion of periods of insurance
Maternity Benefit and Family Benefit
employment, occupational activity or
Article 3 residence, the institution which applies that
Where the legislation of a Contracting Party legislation shall, for the purpose of adding
makes the acquisition, maintenance or periods together, take account of periods of
recovery of the right to benefit conditional upon insurance, employment, occupational activity
the completion of periods of insurance, and residence completed under the
employment, occupational activity or corresponding legislation of any other
residence, the institution which applies that Contracting Party, in so far as they are not
legislation shall, for the purpose of adding overlapping, as if they were periods completed
periods together and to the extent necessary, under the legislation of the first Party.
take account of periods of insurance, 2. Where the legislation of a Contracting
employment, occupational activity and Party makes the provision of benefit
residence completed under the corresponding conditional on the person concerned or, in the
legislation of any other Contracting Party, in so case of survivors’ benefit, the deceased,
far as they are not overlapping, as if they were having been subject to that legislation at the
periods completed under the legislation of the time at which the contingency arose, that
first Party. condition shall be deemed to be fulfilled if the
person concerned or the deceased, as the
2. Unemployment Benefit
case may be, was subject at that time to the
Article 4 legislation of another Contracting Party or,
1. Where the legislation of a Contracting Party failing that, if the person concerned or the
makes the acquisition, maintenance of recovery survivor can claim corresponding benefits
of the right to benefit conditional upon the under the legislation of another Contracting
completion of periods of insurance, employment, Party.
occupational activity or residence, the institution 3. Where the legislation of a Contracting
which applies that legislation shall, for the Party provides that the period of payment of a
purpose of adding periods together and to the pension may be taken into consideration for
extent necessary, take account of periods of the acquisition, maintenance or recovery of the
insurance, employment, occupational activity right to benefit, the competent institution of that
and residence completed under the Party shall for this purpose take account of any
corresponding legislation of any other period during which a pension was paid under
Contracting Party, in so far as they are not the legislation of any other Contracting Party.
overlapping, as if they where periods completed
under the legislation of the first Party. 4. Common Provisions
2. However, the institution of a Contracting Article 6
Party whose legislation requires the Where the legislation of a Contracting Party
completion of periods of insurance for the makes the provision of certain benefits
establishment of the right to benefit may make conditional upon the completion of periods in
the adding together of periods of employment an occupation covered by a special scheme or
or occupational activity completed under the in a specified occupation or employment, only
corresponding legislation of another periods completed under a corresponding
Contracting Party subject to the condition that scheme or, in the absence of such a scheme,
these periods would have been considered as in the same occupation or in the same
periods of insurance if they had been employment, as the case maybe, under the
completed under the legislation of the first legislation of other Contracting Parties, shall
Party. be taken into account for the award of such
3. The provisions of the preceding benefits. If, notwithstanding periods completed
paragraphs of this article shall apply, mutatis in this way, the person concerned does not
mutandis, where the legislation of a satisfy the conditions for entitlement to the said
Contracting Party provides that the length of benefits, the periods concerned shall be taken
the period during which benefit may be into account for the award of benefits under the
awarded depends on the length of the periods general scheme or, in the absence of such a
completed. scheme, the scheme applicable to wage
114

--- Page 121 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
earners or to salaried employees, as theoretical amount referred to in the
appropriate. preceding paragraph may be calculated
on the basis of and up to the amount of the
B. DETERMINATION OF INVALIDITY,
full benefit:
OLD-AGE AND SURVIVORS’BENEFIT
(i) in the case of invalidity or death, in
Article 7
proportion to the ratio of the total
The determination of invalidity, old-age and periods completed, before the
survivors’ benefit shall be carried out in contingency arose, by the person
conformity with either the method of concerned or the deceased under the
apportionment or the method of integration, legislation of all Contracting Parties
according to the choice made by mutual concerned and taken into account in
agreement between the Contracting Parties accordance with the provisions of
concerned. Article 5, to two-thirds the number of
years which elapsed between the date
ALTERNATIVE I–METHOD OF
on which the persons concerned or the
APPORTIONMENT
deceased reached the age of 15-or a
1. Common Provisions higher age fixed by mutual agreement
between the Contracting Parties
Article 8
concerned-and the date on which the
1. Where a person has been subject
incapacity for work followed by
successively or alternately to the legislation of
invalidity or the death, as the case may
two or more Contracting Parties, the institution
be, occurred, disregarding any years
of each of these Parties shall determine, in
subsequent to pensionable age;
accordance with the legislation which it
(ii) in the case of old age, in proportion to
applies, whether such person, or his survivors,
the ratio of the total periods completed
satisfies the conditions for right to benefit
by the person concerned under the
having regard, where appropriate, to the
legislation of all the Contracting Parties
provisions of Article 5.
concerned and taken into account in
2. Where the person concerned satisfies
accordance with the provisions of
these conditions, the competent institution of
article 5, to 30 years, disregarding any
any Contracting Party whose legislation
years subsequent to pensionable age.
provides that the amount of benefits or certain
5. The institution referred to in paragraph 3 of
parts thereof shall be in proportion to the
this Article shall then calculate the actual
periods completed may calculate those
amount of the benefit payable by it to the person
benefits or parts thereof directly, solely on the
concerned on the basis of the theoretical
basis of the periods completed under the
amount calculated in accordance with the
legislation which it applies, notwithstanding the
provisions of paragraph 3 or of paragraph 4 of
provisions of the following paragraphs of this
this Article, as appropriate, and in proportion to
Article.
the ratio of the periods completed before the
3. If the person concerned satisfies the
contingency arose under the legislation which it
conditions referred to in paragraph 1 of this
applies, to the total of the periods completed
Article the competent institution of any of the
before the contingency arose under the
other Contracting Parties shall calculate the
legislation of all the Contracting Parties
theoretical amount of the benefits he could
concerned.
claim if all the periods completed under the
6. If the total of the periods completed under
legislation of all the Contracting Parties
the legislation of all the Contracting Parties
concerned and taken into account for
concerned before the Contingency arose
establishing entitlement, in accordance with
exceeds the maximum period required by the
the provisions of Articles 5, had been
legislation of one of these Parties for the
completed exclusively under the legislation
receipt of full benefits, the institution of that
which that the institution applies.
Party shall, when applying the provisions of
4. However,
paragraphs 3 and 5 of this Article, take into
(a) in the case of benefits the amount of which account this maximum, period instead of the
does not depend on the length of periods total of the periods completed, without,
completed, that amount shall be taken to however, being obliged to award higher
be the theoretical amount referred to in the benefits than the full benefits provided for by
preceding paragraph; the legislation which it applies.
(b) in the case of non-contributory benefits the
amount of which does not depend on the
length of periods completed, the
115

--- Page 122 ---
Building social protection systems
Article 9 need to invoke the provisions of Article
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of 5, the amount of the benefit payable
Article 8, where the total duration of the shall be calculated exclusively in
periods completed under the legislation of a accordance with the provisions of the
Contracting Party is less than one year and legislation the conditions of which are
where, taking into account only those periods, fulfilled, taking account of periods
no right to benefit exists under that legislation, completed under that legislation only.
the institution of the Party concerned shall not 2. Benefits awarded under the legislation of
be bound to award benefit in respect of the one or more Contracting Parties concerned in
said periods. the case covered by the preceding paragraph
2. The periods referred to in the preceding shall be recalculated automatically, in
paragraph shall be taken into account by the accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2
institution of each of the other Contracting or of paragraphs 3 to 6 of Article 8, when the
Parties concerned for the purpose of applying conditions prescribed by the other legislation or
the provisions of Article 8, except those of legislations concerned are satisfied, regard
paragraph 5 thereof. being had, where appropriate, to the provisions
of Article 5.
3. However, where the application of the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article would 3. Benefits awarded under the legislation of
have the effect of relieving all the institutions two or more Contracting Parties shall be
concerned of the obligation to award benefit, recalculated, in accordance with the provisions
benefit shall be awarded of paragraph 1 of this Article, at the request of
the beneficiary, when the conditions
(Alternative A) exclusively under the
prescribed by the legislation of one or more of
legislation of the last Contracting Party whose
these Contracting Parties cease to be fulfilled.
conditions are fulfilled by the person
concerned, regard being had to the provisions Article 11
of Article 5, as if all the periods referred to in
1. Where the amount of the benefits a person
paragraph 1 of this Article had been completed
would be entitled to claim under the legislation
under the legislation of that Party.
of a Contracting Party, without regard to the
(Alternative B) in accordance with the provisions of Articles 5 and 8 to 10, is greater
provisions of Article 8. than the total benefits payable in accordance
with those provisions, the competent institution
Article 10
of that Party shall pay a supplement equal to
1. If the person concerned does not, at a
the difference between the two amounts. That
given date, satisfy the conditions required by
institution shall bear the whole cost of the
the legislation of all the Contracting Parties
supplement.
concerned, regard being had to the provisions
of Article 5, but satisfies the conditions of the (Alternative A) 2. Where the application of
legislation of only one or more of them, the the provisions of the preceding paragraph
following provisions shall apply: would have the effect of entitling the person
(a) the amount of the benefit payable shall be concerned to supplements from the institutions
calculated in accordance with the of two or more Contracting Parties, he shall
provisions of paragraph 2 or of paragraphs receive only whichever is the largest. The cost
3 to 6 of Article 8, as appropriate, by each of this supplement shall be apportioned among
of the competent institutions applying the competent institutions of the Contracting
legislation the conditions of which are Parties concerned according to the ratio
fulfilled; between the amount of the supplement which
each of them would have to pay if it alone had
(b) however:
been concerned and the amount of the
(i) if the person concerned satisfies the
combined supplement which all the said
conditions of the legislation of at least
institutions would have to pay.
two Contracting Parties, without any
need to include periods completed (Alternative B) 2. Where the application of
under any legislation the conditions of the provisions of the preceding paragraph
which are not fulfilled, such periods would have the effect of entitling the person
shall not be taken into account for the concerned to supplements from the institutions
purpose of applying the provisions of of two or more Contracting Parties, he shall
paragraphs 3 to 6 of Article 8; receive these supplements only within the limit
(ii) if the person concerned satisfies the of the highest theoretical amount calculated by
condition of the legislation of one these institutions in accordance with the
Contracting Party only, without any provisions of paragraphs 3 or 4 of Article 8. If
the total amount of the benefit and
116

--- Page 123 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
supplements exceeds the highest theoretical (c) of the preceding paragraph shall apply
amount, each institution of the Contracting mutatis mutandis.
Parties concerned may reduce the amount of
Article 13
the supplement which it would have to pay, by
a fraction of the excess determined according 1. Invalidity or survivors’ benefit shall, where
to the ration between the amount of the latter appropriate, be converted into old-age benefit,
supplement and the amount of the combined on conditions prescribed by the legislation
supplement which all the said institutions under which they have been awarded and in
would have to pay. accordance with the provisions of Article 5 and
8 to 11.
3. The supplements referred to in the
preceding paragraphs of this Article shall be 2. Where, in the case referred to in Article 10,
regarded as a component of the benefit a recipient of invalidity or survivors’ benefit
provided by the institution liable for payment. payable under the legislation of one or more
Their amount shall be determined once and for Contracting Parties becomes entitled to old-
all, except where the provisions of paragraph age benefit, any institution liable for the
2 or paragraph 3 of Article 10 are applicable. payment of invalidity or survivors’ benefit shall
continue to pay the recipient to which he is
2. Special Provisions concerning entitled under the legislation which it applies
Invalidity and Survivors’ Benefits until such time as the provisions of the
Article 12 preceding paragraph become applicable in res
1. In the event of an aggravation of any respect of that institution.
invalidity for which a person is receiving benefit
ALTERNATIVE II-METHOD
under the legislation of one Contracting Party
OF INTEGRATION
only, the following provisions shall apply :
Formula A – Integration Linked with
(a) if the person concerned has not been
Residence
subject to the legislation of any other
Article 14
Contracting Party since he began to
receive benefit, the competent institution 1. Where a person has been subject
of the first Party shall be bound to take the successively or alternately to the legislation of
aggravation into account, when awarding two or more Contracting Parties, he or his
benefit, in accordance with the provisions survivors shall be entitled only to the benefits
of the legislation which it applies; determined in accordance with the legislation
of the Contracting Party in the territory of which
(b) if the person concerned has been subject
they reside, provided that they satisfy the
to the legislation of one or more other
conditions prescribed by that legislation or by
Contracting Parties since he began to
the Contracting Parties concerned, having
receive benefit, the aggravation shall be
regard, where appropriate, to the provisions of
taken into account when awarding benefit
Article 5.
in accordance with the provisions of
Article 5 and 8 to 11; 2. The cost of the benefits determined in
accordance with the provisions of the
(c) in the case referred to in the preceding
preceding paragraph shall be:
subparagraph, the date on which the
aggravation was demonstrated shall be (a) borne entirely by the institution of the
regarded as the date on which the Contracting Party in the territory of which
contingency arose; the person concerned resides; however,
the application of this provision may be
(d) if in the case referred to in subparagraph
made conditional upon the person
(b) of this paragraph the person concerned
concerned having been resident in that
is not entitled to benefit from the institution
territory at the date of the submission of his
of another Contracting Party, the
benefit claim or, in respect of survivors’
competent institution of the first Party shall
benefit, upon the deceased having been
be bound to take the aggravation into
resident in that territory at the date of his
account, when awarding benefit, in
death for a minimum period fixed by
accordance with the provisions of the
mutual agreement between the
legislation which it applies.
Contracting Parties concerned; or
2. In the event of aggravation of any invalidity
(b) apportioned among the institutions of all
for which the person is receiving benefit under
the Contracting Parties concerned
the legislation of two or more Contracting
according to the ratio between the duration
Parties, the aggravation shall be taken into
of the periods completed under the
account, when awarding benefit, in
legislation which each of those institutions
accordance with the provisions of Articles 5
applies, before the contingency arose, and
and 8 to 11. The provisions of subparagraph
117

--- Page 124 ---
Building social protection systems
the total duration of the periods completed Article 16
under the legislation of all the Contracting The provisions of Article 12, paragraph 1, shall
Parties concerned before the contingency apply mutatis mutandis.
arose; or
C. DETERMINATION OF BENEFITS IN
(c) borne by the institution of the Contracting
RESPECT OF OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES
Party in the territory of which the person
concerned resides, but compensated by Article 17
the institutions of the other Contracting 1. If a worker contracts an occupational
Parties concerned according to a lump- disease after having been engaged in an
sum arrangement agreed upon between occupation likely to cause that disease under
all these Parties on the basis of the the legislation of two or more Contracting
participation of the person concerned in Parties, the benefit to which he or his survivors
the scheme of each of the Contracting may be entitled shall be awarded exclusively
Parties which is not liable to pay benefit. under the legislation of the last of the said
3. If the person concerned does not satisfy Parties the conditions of which they fulfil,
the conditions of the legislation of the regard being had, where applicable, to the
Contracting Party referred to in paragraph 1 of provisions of paragraphs 2 to 4 of this Article.
this Article or if that legislation does not provide 2. Where the legislation of a Contracting
for the award of invalidity, old-age or survivors’ Party makes the right to benefit for
benefit, he shall receive the most favourable occupational diseases conditional upon the
benefit to which he is entitled under the disease in question being first diagnosed in its
legislation of any other Contracting Party, territory, that condition shall be deemed to
regard being had, where appropriate, to the have been fulfilled if this disease was first
provisions of Article 5. diagnosed in the territory of another
Contracting Party.
Formula B – Integration Linked with the
3. Where the legislation of a Contracting
Occurrence of Invalidity or Death
Party explicitly or implicitly makes the right to
(Note: This formula may be limited to cases
benefit for occupational diseases conditional
where the person considered has completed
upon the disease in question being diagnosed
periods exclusively under legislation under
within a specified period after the termination
which the amount of benefits is independent
of the last occupation liable to cause such a
of the duration of periods completed.)
disease, the competent institution of that Party,
Article 15
when ascertaining the time at which the
1. Where a person has been subject occupation of the same kind engaged in under
successively or alternately to the legislation of the legislation of any other Contracting Party,
two or more Contracting Parties, he or his as if it had been engaged in under the
survivors shall be entitled to benefit in legislation of the first Party.
accordance with the provisions of the following
4. Where the legislation of a contracting
paragraphs of this Article.
Party explicitly or implicitly makes entitlement
2. The institution of the Contracting Party to benefit for occupational diseases
whose legislation was applicable when the conditional upon an occupation liable to cause
incapacity for work followed by invalidity or the disease in question having been pursued
death occurred shall determine, in accordance for a specific period, the competent institution
with the provisions of that legislation, whether of that Party shall, to the extent necessary,
the person concerned satisfies the conditions take account, for the purpose of adding
for right to benefit, regard being had, where periods together, of periods during which such
appropriate, to the provisions of Article 5. an occupation was followed in the territory of
3. The person concerned who satisfies these any other Contracting Party.
conditions shall obtain the benefit form the said 5. In those cases where the provisions of
institution only, in accordance with the paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of this Article are
provisions of the legislation which it applies. applied,
4. If the person concerned does not satisfy (Alternative I) the cost of benefits
the conditions of the legislation of the
(Alternative II) the cost of pensions
Contracting Party referred to in paragraph 2 of
in respect of occupational diseases may be
this Article, or if that legislation does not
apportioned among the Contracting Parties
provide for invalidity or survivors’ benefit, he
concerned,
shall receive the most favourable benefit to
which he is entitled under the legislation of any (Alternative A) in proportion to the ratio between
other Contracting Party, having regard, where the duration of exposure to the risk under the
applicable, to the provisions of Article 5. legislation of each of those Parties and the total
118

--- Page 125 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
duration of exposure to the risk under the Article 19
legislation of the said Parties. 1. Persons who reside in the territory of a
(Alternative B) in proportion to the ratio between Contracting Party other than the competent
the duration of the periods completed under the State and who satisfy the conditions for right to
legislation of each of those Parties and the total benefit prescribed by the legislation of the
duration of the periods completed under the latter State, regard being had, where
legislation of the said Parties. appropriate, to the provisions of Article 3, shall
(Alternative C) equally between those Parties receive in the territory of the Contracting Party
under whose legislation the duration of in which they reside--
exposure to risk has reached a percentage, (a) benefits in kind, provided at the expense
fixed by mutual agreement between the Parties of the competent institution by the
concerned, of the total duration of exposure to institution of the place of residence in
the risk under the legislation of the said Parties. accordance with the provisions of the
legislation which the latter institution
Article 18
applies, as if these persons were affiliated
Where a worker having contracted an to it;
occupational disease has received or is
(b) cash benefits, paid by the competent
receiving compensation from the institution of
institution in accordance with the
a Contracting Party, and in the event of an
provisions of the legislation which it
aggravation of his condition claims benefits
applies, as if these persons were resident
from the institution of another Contracting
in the territory of the competent State.
Party, the following provisions shall apply:
However, by agreement between the
(a) where the worker has not engaged, under competent institution and the institution of
the legislation of the second Party, in an the place of residence, cash benefits may
occupation liable to cause or aggravate also be paid through the latter institution,
the disease in question, the competent on behalf of the competent institution.
institution of the first Party shall bear the
2. The provisions of the preceding paragraph
cost of the benefit, taking the aggravation
shall apply, mutatis mutandis, in respect of
into account, in accordance with the
medical care, sickness and maternity benefits,
provisions of the legislation which that
to members of the family who are resident in
institution applies;
the territory of a Contracting Party other than
(b) where the worker has engaged in such an the competent State.
occupation under the legislation of the
3. Benefits may also be provided to frontier
second Party, the competent institution of
workers and to members of their family by the
the first Party shall bear the cost of the
competent institution in the territory of the
benefit, leaving the aggravation out of
competent State, i accordance with the
account, in accordance with the provisions
provisions of the legislation of that State, as if
of the legislation which it applies; the
they were resident in its territory.
competent institution of the second Party
shall award to the worker a supplementary Article 20
benefit the amount of which shall be equal (ALTERNATIVE I)
to the difference between the amount of
1. Persons who satisfy the conditions for
the benefit due after the aggravation and
right to benefit under the legislation of the
the amount of the benefit that would, in
competent State, regard being had where
accordance with the provisions of the
appropriate, to the provisions of Article 3, and:
legislation which that institution applies,
(a) whose condition necessitates the
have been due before the aggravation if
immediate provision of benefits during
the disease in question had been
temporary residence in the territory of a
contracted under the legislation of that
Contracting Party other than the
Party.
competent State; or
IV. MAINTENANCE OF ACQUIRED (b) who, having become entitled to benefits
RIGHTS AND PROVISION payable by the competent institution, are
OF BENEFITS ABROAD authorised by that institution to return to
1. Medical Care, Sickness Benefit, the territory of a Contracting Party where
Maternity Benefit and Benefits they reside, other than the competent
Other than Pensions State, or to transfer their residence to the
in respect of Occupational Injuries territory of a Contracting Party other than
and Diseases the competent State; or
119

--- Page 126 ---
Building social protection systems
(c) who are authorised by the competent (c) who go to the territory of a Contracting
institution to go to the territory of a Party other than the competent State in
contracting Party other than the competent order to receive the treatment required by
State in order to receive the treatment their condition, shall receive--
required by their condition, shall receive: (i) benefits in kind, provided by the
(i) benefits in kind, provided at the institution of the place of residence or
expense of the competent institution temporary residence in accordance
by the institution of the place of with the provisions of the legislation
residence or temporary residence in applied by that institution, as if these
accordance with the provisions of the persons were affiliated to it;
legislation applied by the latter (ii) cash benefits, paid by the competent
institution, as if these persons were institution in accordance with the
affiliated to it, for a period not longer provisions of the legislation which it
than that which may be prescribed by applies, as if these persons were in the
the legislation of the competent State; territory of the competent State.
(ii) cash benefits, paid by the competent However, by agreement between the
institution in accordance with the competent institution and the
provisions of the legislation which it institution of the place of residence or
applies, as if these persons were in the temporary residence, cash benefits
territory of the competent State. may be paid through the latter
However, by agreement between the institution, on behalf of the competent
competent institution and the institution.
institution of the place of residence or 2. The provisions of the preceding paragraph
temporary residence, cash benefits shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to members of
may be paid through the latter the family in respect of medical care, sickness
institution on behalf of the competent and maternity benefits.
institution.
2. Unemployment Benefit
2.
Article 21
(a) The authorisation referred to in subpara-
graph (b) of the preceding paragraph may 1. Unemployed workers who satisfy the
be refused only if the move might prejudice conditions for right to benefit prescribed by the
the health or the course of medical legislation of one Contracting Party in respect of
treatment of the person concerned. the completion of periods of insurance,
employment, occupational activity or residence,
(b) The authorisation referred to in subpara-
regard being had, where appropriate, to the
graph (c) of the preceding paragraph shall
provisions of Article 4, and who transfer their
not be refused when the requisite treatment
residence to the territory of another Contracting
cannot be given in the territory of the
Party, shall be deemed to have also satisfied the
Contracting Party in which the person
conditions for right to benefit prescribed by the
concerned resides.
legislation of the second Party, provided that
3. The provisions of the preceding
they place themselves at the disposal of the
paragraphs of this Article shall apply, mutatis
employment services in the territory of that Party
mutandis, to members of the family in respect
and file a claim with the institution of their new
of medical care, sickness and maternity
place of residence within 30 days of their
benefits.
transfer of residence, or such longer period as
(ALTERNATIVE II) may be fixed by mutual agreement between the
Contracting Parties. The benefit shall be paid by
1. Persons who satisfy the conditions for
the institution of the place of residence, in
right to benefit under the legislation of the
accordance with the provisions of the legislation
competent State, regard being had, where
which that institution applies, the cost being
appropriate, to the provisions of Article 3, and
borne by the competent institution of the first
(a) whose condition necessitates the
Party,
immediate provision of benefits during
(Alternative I) for a period not exceeding any
temporary residence in the territory of a
period which may be prescribed by the
Contracting Party other than the
legislation of that Party.
competent State; or
(Alternative II) for a period not exceeding the
(b) who, having become entitled to benefits
shortest of the periods fixed by the legislation
payable by the competent institution,
of each of the two Contracting Parties
return to the territory of a Contracting Party
concerned.
other than the competent State; or
120

--- Page 127 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
(Alternative III) for a period not exceeding that institution of the place of residence at
prescribed by mutual agreement between the its own cost;
Contracting Parties. (iii) however, if the worker referred to in
2. Without prejudice to the provisions of the subparagraph (b) (ii) of this paragraph
preceding paragraph, an unemployed person has become entitled to benefit from
who, during his last employment, was resident the competent institution of the
in the territory of a Contracting Party other than Contracting Party to whose legislation
the competent State shall receive benefit in he was last subject, he shall receive
accordance with the following provisions: benefit in accordance with the
(a) provisions of the preceding paragraph,
as if he had transferred his residence
(i) a frontier worker who is partially or
to the territory of the Contracting Party
incidentally unemployed in the
referred to in subparagraph (b) (ii) of
undertaking which employs him shall
this paragraph, for a period not
receive benefit in accordance with the
exceeding the period laid down in the
provisions of the legislation of the
preceding paragraph.
competent State, as if he were
resident in the territory of that State, 3. As long as an unemployed person is
regard being had, where appropriate, entitled to benefit by virtue of
to the provisions of Article 4; such subparagraph (a) (i) or subparagraph (b) (i) of
benefit shall be paid by the competent the preceding paragraph, he shall not be
institution; entitled to benefit under the legislation of the
Contracting Party in the territory of which he
(ii) a frontier worker who is wholly
resides.
unemployed shall receive benefit in
accordance with the provisions of the 3. Family Benefit
Contracting Party in whose territory he
ALTERNATIVE I – FAMILY ALLOWANCES
resides, as if he had been subject to
Article 22
that legislation during his last
employment, regard being had, where 1. Persons who are subject to the legislation
appropriate, to the provisions of Article of a Contracting Party, regard being had,
4; such benefit shall be paid by the where appropriate, to the provisions of Article
institution of the place of residence at 3, shall receive, in respect of the members of
its own cost; their family who are resident in the territory of
another Contracting Party, the family
(b)
allowances provided under the legislation of
(i) a worker, other than a frontier worker,
the first Party, as if these members of the
who becomes partially, incidentally or
family were resident in the territory of that
wholly unemployed and remains
Party.
available to his employer or to the
2. The family allowances shall be paid in
employment services in the territory of
accordance with the provisions of the
the competent State, shall receive
legislation of the Contracting Party to which the
benefit in accordance with the
beneficiary is subject, even if the person or
provisions of the legislation of the
body corporate to whom these allowances are
competent State, as if he were
payable is resident or is located in the territory
resident in the territory of that State,
of another Contracting Party. In that case, by
regard being had, where appropriate,
agreement between the competent institution
to the provisions of Article 4; such
and the institution of the place of residence of
benefit shall be paid by the competent
the members of the family, the family
institution;
allowances may also be paid through the latter
(ii) a worker, other than a frontier worker,
institution, on behalf of the competent
who becomes wholly unemployed
institution.
makes himself available to the
employment services in the territory of ALTERNATIVE II – FAMILY BENEFIT
the Contracting Party where he Article 23
resides, or returns to that territory,
(ALTERNATIVE A)
shall receive benefit in accordance
with the provisions of the legislation of 1. Persons who are subject to the legislation
that Party, as if he had been subject to of a Contracting Party shall receive, regard
that legislation during his last being had, where appropriate, to the
employment, regard being had, where provisions of Article 3, in respect of the
appropriate, to the provisions of Article members of their family who reside in the
4; such benefit shall be paid by the territory of another Contracting Party, the
121

--- Page 128 ---
Building social protection systems
family benefit provided under the legislation of non-contributory invalidity, old-age or
the latter party, as if the said persons were survivors’ benefits whose amount does not
subject to its legislation. depend on the length of the periods of
2. The family benefit shall be paid to the residence are paid to the beneficiary who is
members of the family by the institution of their resident in the territory of another Contracting
place of residence, in accordance with the Party in the same proportion that the
provisions of the legislation which that contributory benefits to which that beneficiary
institution applies, at the expense of the is entitled bear to the total amount of the
competent institution, in an amount not contributory benefits to which he would been
exceeding the amount of the benefit due by the titled if he had completed the total duration of
latter institution. the periods required for entitlement.
(ALTERNATIVE B) V. REGULATION OF UNDUE
PLURALITY
Where the members of the family of a person
who works or resides in the territory of a Article 25
Contracting Party reside in the territory of Provisions in the legislation of a Contracting
another Contracting Party, family benefits shall Party for the reduction, suspension or
be paid to them by and at the expense of the suppression of benefits where there is undue
institution of their place of residence. plurality with other benefits or other income, or
because the person otherwise entitled is in
4. Non-contributory Invalidity, Old-age
employment or in an occupational activity,
and Survivors ‘Benefit
shall apply also to a beneficiary even in
Article 24 respect of benefits acquired under the
(Alternative I) Where the provisions of Article 8 legislation of another Contracting Party or of
are not applicable, and where the beneficiary income obtained or employment or
of non-contributory invalidity, old-age or occupational activity undertaken in the territory
survivors’ benefit, the amount of which does of another Contracting Party. However, in
not depend on the length of the periods of applying this rule no account shall be taken of
residence completed, is resident in the territory benefits of the same nature awarded in respect
of a Contracting Party other than the tone of invalidity, old-age, survivors or occupational
under whose legislation he is entitled to disease by the institutions of two or more
benefit, the benefit may be calculated in contracting Parties in accordance with the
accordance with the following provisions: provisions of Article 8 or Article 18,
(a) in the case of invalidity or death, in subparagraph (b).
proportion to the ratio of the number of
Article 26
years of residence completed by the
Where a person in receipt of benefit under the
person concerned or the deceased under
legislation of one Contracting Party is also
the said legislation between the date on
entitled to benefit under the legislation of one
which he reached the age of 15 or a higher
or more of the other Contracting Parties, the
age fixed by mutual agreement between
following rules shall apply :
the Contracting Parties concerned and the
date of incapacity for work followed by (a) where the application of the provisions of
invalidity or of death, to two-thirds of the the legislation of two or more Contracting
number of years separating those two Parties would entail the concomitant
dates, disregarding any years subsequent reduction, suspension or suppression of
to pensionable age; such benefits, none of them may be
reduced, suspended or suppressed to an
(b) in the case of old-age, in proportion to the
extent greater that the amount which
ratio of the number of years of residence
would be obtained by dividing the sum
completed by the person concerned under
affected by the reduction, suspension or
the said legislation between the date on
suppression in accordance with the
which he reached the age of 15 or a higher
legislation under which benefit is due by
age fixed by mutual agreement between
the number of benefits subject to
the Contracting Parties concerned and the
reduction, suspension or suppression to
date on which he reached the pensionable
which the beneficiary is entitled;
age, to 30 years.
(b) notwithstanding the foregoing, where the
(Alternative II) Where the provisions of
benefits concerned are invalidity, old-age
Article 8 are not applicable, and where the
or survivors’ benefits paid in conformity
legislation of a Contracting Party provides for
with the provisions of Article 8 by the
both contributory and non-contributory
institution of a Contracting Party, that
invalidity, old-age or survivors’ benefits, the
institution shall take account of the
122

--- Page 129 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
benefits, income or remuneration entailing of two or more Contracting Parties, the right
the reduction, suspension or suppression acquired under the legislation of the
of the benefits due from it solely for the Contracting Party to which the deceased was
purposes of the reduction, suspension or last subject may be alone recognised, to the
suppression of the benefits due from it exclusion of any right acquired under the
solely for the purposes of the reduction, legislation of any other Contracting Party.
suspension or suppression of the amount
Article 30
referred to in paragraph 2 or paragraph 5
of Article 8, but not for the calculation of (Alternative I) Where, over the same period,
the theoretical amount referred to in family allowances are payable for the same
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the said Article 8; members of the family under the provisions of
however, account shall be taken o of such Article 22 and under the legislation of the
benefits, income or remuneration only to Contracting Party in the territory of which those
the extent of that fraction of their amount members of the family reside, the right to
corresponding to the ratio of the periods family allowances payable under the
completed, as prescribed in Article 8, legislation of the latter shall be suspended.
paragraph 5. However, in the case where a member of the
family is engaged in an occupation in the
Article 27 territory of the said Party, that right shall be
Where a person has a claim to medical care or maintained, whereas the right to family
sickness benefit under the legislation of two or allowances payable under the provisions of
more Contracting Parties, such benefit may be Article 22 shall be suspended.
provided solely under the legislation of the (Alternative II) Where, over the same period,
Party in the territory of which he resides or, if family allowances are payable for the same
he does not reside in the territory of one of members of the family under the provisions of
those Parties, solely under the legislation of Article 22 and under the legislation of the
the Party to which this person or the person Contracting Party in the territory of which those
through whom entitlement to the said benefits members of the family reside, the right to
arises was last subject. family allowances payable under the
provisions of Article 22 shall be suspended.
Article 28
Where a person has a claim to maternity VI. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
benefit under the legislation of two or more Article 31
Contracting Parties, such benefit may be
Medical examinations prescribed by the
provided solely under the legislation of the
legislation of one Contracting Party may be
Party in the territory of which the birth took
carried out, at the request of the institution
place or, if the birth did not take place in the
which applies this legislation, in the territory of
territory of one of those Parties, solely under
another Contracting Party, by the institution of
the legislation of the Party to which this person
the place of residence or temporary residence.
or the person through whom entitlement to the
In such event, they shall be deemed to have
said benefits arises was last subject.
been carried out in the territory of the first
Article 29 Party.
1. Where death occurs in the territory of a Article 32
Contracting Party, the right to a death grant
1. For the calculation of the amount of
acquired under the legislation of that Party
contributions due to the institution of a
may be alone recognised, to the exclusion of
Contracting Party, account shall be taken,
any right acquired under the legislation of any
where appropriate, of any income received in
other Contracting Party.
the territory of any other Contracting Party.
2. Where death occurs in the territory of a
2. The recovery of contributions due to the
Contracting Party and the right to a death grant
institution of one Contracting Party may be
has been acquired solely under the legislation
effected in the territory of another Contracting
of two or more other Contracting Parties, the
Party in accordance with the administrative
right acquired under the legislation of the
procedures and subject to the guarantees and
Contracting Party to which the deceased was
privileges applicable to the recovery of
last subject may be alone recognised, to the
contributions due to a corresponding institution
exclusion of any right acquired under the
of the latter Party.
legislation of any other Contracting Party.
Article 33
3. Where death occurs outside the territory of
Any exemption from, or reduction of, taxes,
the Contracting Parties and the right to death
stamp duty, legal dues or registration fees
grant has been acquired under the legislation
123

--- Page 130 ---
Building social protection systems
provided for in the legislation of one account opened by this institution in the name
Contracting Party in connection with of the person concerned.
certificates or documents required to be 3. If the institution referred to in paragraph 1
produced for the purposes of the legislation of of this Article is competent in respect of
that Party shall be extended to similar pensions, the amount transferred shall be paid
certificates and documents required to be to the institution concerned in order to enable
produced for the purposes of the legislation of the person concerned to buy back periods for
another Contracting Party or of these model the purpose of acquiring or improving his rights
provisions. to benefits under the legislation applied by this
institution. The method of buying back periods
Article 34
shall be determined either in accordance with
1. The competent authorities of the
the provisions of that legislation or by mutual
Contracting Parties may designate liaison
agreement between the Contracting Parties
bodies empowered to communicate directly
concerned.
with one another and, provided they are
authorised to do so by the competent Article 37
authorities of that Party, with the institutions of Where a person ceases to be subject to the
any Contracting Party. legislation of a Contracting Party under which
2. Any institution of a Contracting Party, and he had been affiliated to a pensions scheme in
likewise any person residing or temporarily order to move to the territory of another
residing in the territory of a Contracting Party, Contracting Party under whose legislation he
may approach the institution of another is registered with a provident fund, before
Contracting Party either directly or through the having acquired the right to a pension under
liaison bodies. the legislation of the first Party,
(Alternative A) the pension rights in course of
Article 35
acquisition of this person for himself and his
1. Any dispute which arises between two or
survivors are maintained until the conditions
more Contracting Parties concerning the
required for the receipt of the pension are
interpretation or application of these model
satisfied. Failing this, the amount of the
provisions shall be settled by means of direct
contributions paid by this person or on his
negotiation between the competent authorities
behalf shall be transferred to the provident
of the Contracting Parties concerned.
fund under conditions fixed by mutual
2. If the dispute cannot be so settled within a agreement between the Contracting Parties
period of six months from the beginning of concerned.
negotiations, it shall be submitted to a
(Alternative B) the amount of the contributions
commission of arbitration; the composition and
paid by this person or on his behalf shall be
the procedure of this commission shall be
transferred to the provident fund under the
determined by mutual agreement among the
conditions fixed by mutual agreement between
Contracting Parties concerned.
the Contracting Parties concerned.
3. The decisions of the commission of
arbitration shall be binding and final. ALTERNATIVE II
Article 38
VII. PROVISIONS CONCERNING
1. Where the legislation of a Contracting
THE MAINTENANCE OF RIGHTS
Party makes the acquisition, maintenance or
IN THE RELATIONS BETWEEN OR
recovery of the right to pension conditional
WITH PROVIDENT FUNDS
upon the completion of periods of insurance,
ALTERNATIVE I
employment, occupational activity or
Article 36 residence, the institution which applies that
1. Where a person ceases to be subject to legislation shall, for the purpose of adding
the legislation of a Contracting Party under periods together, take account of periods
which he has been registered with a provident during which a person was registered with a
fund, before the occurrence of a risk entitling provident fund and required to make
him to obtain the payment of the amount contributions to that fund.
credited to his account, he may, upon request, 2. Where the person concerned satisfies the
either withdraw the total amount or have it conditions for payment of a pension taking
transferred to the institution to which he is account of paragraph 1 of this Article, the
affiliated in the territory of the Contracting amount of the pension shall be determined in
Party to whose legislation he is now subject. accordance with Article 8 to 13.
2. If this institution is itself a provident fund, 3. Where the legislation of a Contracting
the amount transferred shall be credited to the Party makes the payment of amounts credited
124

--- Page 131 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
to a person’s account under a provident fund to periods of employment or periods of
conditional upon the completion of periods of occupational activity, respectively;
contributions, the institution which applies that (i) the term periods of residence means
legislation shall, for the purpose of adding periods of residence defined or recognised
periods together, take account of periods of as such by the legislation under which they
insurance, employment, occupational activity were completed;
and residence completed under the legislation
(j) the term benefits means all benefits in
of a Contracting Party under which he was
kind and in cash provided in respect of the
affiliated to a pensions scheme.
contingency concerned, including death
grants and:
ANNEX II
(i) as benefits in kind, benefits aimed at
Model Agreement for the coordination the prevention of any contingency
of bilateral or multilateral social security covered by social security, physical
instruments rehabilitation and vocational
Article 1 rehabilitation;
For the purpose of this agreement: (ii) as benefits in cash, all components there
(a) the term Contracting Party means any of provided out of public funds, and all
State Member of the International Labour increases, revaluation allowances or
Organisation that is bound by the supplementary allowances, and only
agreement; benefits awarded for the purpose of
maintaining or improving earning
(b) the term legislation includes any social
capacity, lump-sum benefits which may
security rules as well as laws and
be paid in lieu of pensions and, where
regulations;
applicable, any payments made by way
(c) the term refugee has the meaning of refund of contributions.
assigned to it in Article 1 of the Convention
relating to the Status of Refugees of 28 Article 2
July 1951 and in paragraph 2 of Article 1 In the field governed by this agreement,
of the Protocol relating to the Status of coverage by the provisions of each instrument
Refugees of 31 January 1967, without binding on two or more Contracting Parties
geographical limitation; shall be extended to the nationals of any other
(d) the term stateless person has the Contracting Party, as well as to the refugees
meaning assigned to it in Article 1 of the and stateless persons resident in the territory
Convention relating to the Status of of any Contracting Party.
Stateless Persons of 28 September 1954;
Article 3
(e) the term instrument means any bilateral
This agreement shall be applicable to all
or multilateral instrument concerning the
persons covered by the provisions of two or
maintenance of rights in course of
more instruments.
acquisition in social security that is binding
or will be binding on two or more Article 4
Contracting parties; 1. The provisions of an instrument binding on
(f) the term institution means any body or two or more Contracting Parties, concerning
authority directly responsible for applying the adding together of periods of insurance,
all or part of the legislation of a Contracting employment, occupational activity or
Party; residence for the acquisition, maintenance or
recovery of the right to benefit shall be
(g) the term periods of insurance means
applicable to corresponding periods
periods of contribution, employment,
completed under the legislation of any other
occupational activity or residence which are
Contracting Party bound with the said Parties
defined or recognised as periods of
by an instrument which also comprises
insurance by the legislation under which
provisions concerning the adding together of
they were completed, and such other
such periods, provided that the periods to be
periods as are regarded by that legislation
added together are not overlapping.
as equivalent to periods of insurance;
2. If, under the provisions of paragraph 1 of
(h) the terms periods of employment and
this Article, the institution of a Contracting
periods of occupational activity mean
Party should apply the provisions of two or
periods defined or recognised as such by
more instruments which contain different
the legislation under which they were
modalities for the adding together of periods,
completed, and such other periods as are
this institution shall apply exclusively the
regarded by that legislation as equivalent
125

--- Page 132 ---
Building social protection systems
provisions which are most favourable for the provisions of Article 4, paragraphs 1 and 2;
person concerned. however, it shall only award the highest
3. In the case of benefits which, under all amount of the benefits determined under these
relevant instruments, are awarded in instruments.
conformity with the legislation of only one 3. If all the relevant instruments have
Contracting Party, the adding together referred recourse to the method of integration, the
to in paragraph 1 of this Article is carried out institution of the Contracting Party which
only to the extent necessary for the acquisition, should award the benefits shall take into
maintenance or recovery of the right to the account for this purpose the provisions of
most favourable benefits provided for under Article 4.
this legislation. 4. If the relevant instruments have recourse
respectively to the method of apportionment
Article 5
and the method of integration, the institution of
1. If the provisions of Article 4 are applicable,
each Contracting Party shall apply the
invalidity, old-age and survivors’ benefits are
provisions of the instruments by which this
determined in conformity with the provisions of
Party is bound, regard being had to the adding
paragraphs 2 to 4 of this Article.
together of periods carried out according to the
2. If all the relevant instruments have provisions of Article 4; however, only the
recourse to the method of apportionment, the benefits resulting from the application of the
institution of each Contracting Party shall apply most favourable method shall be awarded to
the provisions of the instruments by which this the person concerned.
Party is bound, regard being had to the adding
together of periods carried out according to the
R176 – Employment Promotion and Protection against Unemployment
Recommendation, 1988
Preamble (c) the term the Convention means the
The General Conference of the International Employment Promotion and Protection
Labour Organisation, against Unemployment Convention, 1988.
Having been convened at Geneva by the II. Promotion of Productive Employment
Governing Body of the International Labour
2. The promotion of full, productive and freely
Office, and having met in its Seventy-fifth
chosen employment by all appropriate means,
Session on 1 June 1988, and
including through social security, should be a
Having decided upon the adoption of certain priority objective of national policy. Such
proposals with regard to employment means should include, inter alia, employment
promotion and social security which is the fifth services, vocational training and vocational
item on the agenda of the session, and guidance.
Having determined that these proposals shall 3. In periods of economic crisis, adjustment
take the form of a Recommendation policies should include, under prescribed
supplementing the Employment Promotion conditions, measures to encourage initiatives
and Protection against Unemployment which involve the maximum use of labour on a
Convention, 1988, large scale.
adopts this twenty-first day of June of the year 4. Members should endeavour to grant in
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-eight, particular, under prescribed conditions and in
the following Recommendation, which may be the most appropriate manner, by way of
cited as the Employment Promotion and occupational mobility incentives:
Protection against Unemployment
(a) allowances towards the costs of travel and
Recommendation, 1988.
equipment necessary to take advantage of
I. General Provisions the services provided for in Paragraph 2
above;
1. In this Recommendation:
(b) allowances in the form of periodical
(a) the term legislation includes any social
payments calculated in accordance with
security rules as well as laws and
the provisions of Article 15 of the
regulations;
Convention for a prescribed period of
(b) the term prescribed means determined
vocational training or retraining.
by or in virtue of national legislation;
126

--- Page 133 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
5. Members should in addition consider the achievement of national objectives
granting in particular, under prescribed regarding employment promotion.
conditions and in the most appropriate
III. Protection of Unemployed Persons
manner, by way of occupational or
geographical mobility incentives: 12. In case of partial unemployment and in
the case referred to in Article 10, paragraph 3,
(a) temporary degressive allowances
of the Convention, benefit should be provided,
designed to offset, where appropriate, a
under prescribed conditions, in the form of
reduction in pay as a result of
periodical payments fairly compensating for
redeployment;
the loss of earnings due to unemployment.
(b) allowances towards travel and removal
These benefits might be calculated in the light
costs;
of the reduction of hours of work suffered by
(c) separation allowances; the unemployed persons or so that the total of
(d) resettlement grants. the benefit and the earnings from the part-time
6. Members should ensure co-ordination of work reaches a sum between the amount of
statutory pension schemes and encourage co- the previous earnings from full-time work and
ordination of private pension schemes in order the amount of the full unemployment benefit,
to remove barriers to occupational mobility. so as not to discourage part-time or temporary
work, when these forms of work may assist in
7. Members should offer to protected
a return to full-time work.
persons, under prescribed conditions, facilities
to enable them to engage in remunerated 13. (1) The percentages specified in Article
temporary employment without endangering 15 of the Convention for the calculation of
the employment of other workers and with the benefits should be reached on the basis of the
purpose of improving their own chances of gross earnings of the beneficiary before tax
obtaining productive and freely chosen and social security contributions.
employment. (2) If appropriate, these percentages may be
8. Members should, as far as possible, offer reached by comparing net periodical
to unemployed persons who wish to set up payments after tax and contributions with net
their own business or take up another earnings after tax and contributions.
economic activity, financial assistance and 14. (1) The concept of suitable employment
advisory services under prescribed conditions. should, under prescribed conditions, not apply
9. Members should give consideration to the to:
conclusion of bilateral and multilateral (a) employment involving a change of
agreements which provide for assistance to occupation which does not take account of
foreign workers protected by their legislation the abilities, qualifications, skills, work
who freely wish to return to the territory of the experience or the retraining potential of the
State of which they are nationals or in which person concerned;
they formerly resided. Where such (b) employment involving a change of
agreements do not exist, Members should residence to a place in which suitable
provide, through national legislation, financial accommodation is not available;
assistance to the workers concerned.
(c) employment in which the conditions and
10. Members should, in accordance, if remuneration are appreciably less
appropriate, with provisions in multilateral favourable than those which are generally
agreements, invest any reserves accumulated granted, at the relevant time, in the
by statutory pension schemes and provident occupation and district in which the
funds in such a way as to promote and not to employment is offered;
discourage employment within the country,
(d) employment vacant as a direct result of a
and encourage such investment from private
stoppage due to an ongoing labour
sources, including private pension schemes,
dispute;
while at the same time affording the necessary
(e) employment such that, for a reason other
guarantees of security and yield of the
than those covered in clauses (a) to (d),
investment.
and with due regard to all attendant
11. The progressive introduction in rural and
circumstances, including the family
urban areas of community services, including
responsibilities of the person concerned,
health-care services, financed by social
the refusal of the employment is not
security contributions or by other sources,
unreasonable.
should lead to increased employment and the
(2) In assessing the criteria specified in
provision of training of personnel, while at the
clauses (a) to (c) and (e) above, account
same time making a practical contribution to
should be taken in general of the age of the
127

--- Page 134 ---
Building social protection systems
unemployed persons, of their length of service care to unemployed persons, including, if
in their former occupation, of their acquired possible, those who are not in receipt of
experience, of the duration of their unemployment benefit, and to their
unemployment, of the state of the labour dependants.
market and of the repercussions of the 21. Members should endeavour to
employment on their personal and family guarantee to persons in receipt of
situations. unemployment benefit, under prescribed
15. If an unemployed person has agreed to conditions, that the periods during which
accept, for a prescribed maximum period, benefits are paid will be taken into
temporary employment which cannot be consideration:
regarded as suitable within the meaning of (a) for acquisition of the right to and, where
Paragraph 14 above, or part-time employment appropriate, calculation of disability, old-
in the circumstances covered in Article 10, age and survivors’ benefit, and
paragraph 3, of the Convention, the level and
(b) for acquisition of the right to medical care
duration of unemployment benefit paid at the
and sickness, maternity and family benefit
end of such employment should not be
after the end of unemployment, when the
adversely affected by the earnings of the
legislation of the Member concerned
unemployed person from that employment.
provides for such benefits and makes
16. Members should endeavour to extend them directly or indirectly conditional upon
progressively the application of their legislation occupational activity.
concerning unemployment benefit to cover all
22. Members should endeavour to make
employees. However, public employees
adjustments of statutory social security
whose employment up to normal retirement
schemes which are based on occupational
age is guaranteed by national laws or
activity to the occupational circumstances of
regulations may be excluded from protection.
part-time workers. Such adjustments, provided
17. Members should endeavour to protect for in Article 25 of the Convention, should
workers who are experiencing hardship in a relate in particular, under prescribed
waiting period. conditions to:
18. The following provisions should be (a) the minimum hours of work and minimum
applicable, as appropriate, to the categories of earnings necessary for the entitlement to
persons mentioned in Article 26, paragraph 1, benefits under the basic and supplementary
of the Convention: schemes;
(a) in cases of full unemployment, the benefit (b) maximum earnings for the calculation of
may be calculated in accordance with the contributions;
provisions of Article 16 of the Convention;
(c) the qualifying period for entitlement to
(b) the qualifying period should be adapted or benefit;
waived, under prescribed conditions, for
(d) the methods of calculating cash benefits,
certain of the categories of persons newly
in particular pensions, on the basis of
seeking work;
earnings and of the length of the period of
(c) when benefit is provided without a contribution, insurance or occupational
qualifying period: activity;
(i) the waiting period may be increased to (e) entitlement to non-reduced minimum
a prescribed length; benefits and flat-rate benefits, in particular
(ii) the duration of payment of benefit family allowances.
may be limited under prescribed 23. Members should endeavour to promote a
conditions notwithstanding the real understanding of the hardships of
provision of Article 19, paragraph 1, unemployed persons, particularly those who
of the Convention. have been unemployed for a long period, and
19. When the duration of payment of benefit their need for sufficient income.
is limited by national legislation, it should be
IV. Development and Improvement
extended, under prescribed conditions, until
of Systems of Protection
pensionable age for unemployed persons who
have reached a prescribed age prior to the 24. Since the systems of protection for the
pensionable age. unemployed of some Members are in the early
stages of development and others may have
20. Members whose legislation provides for
to consider changes to existing schemes in the
the rights to medical care and makes it directly
light of changing needs, a variety of
or indirectly conditional upon occupational
approaches may legitimately be taken in
activity should endeavour to ensure, under
assisting the unemployed, and Members
prescribed conditions, the provision of medical
128

--- Page 135 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
should give high priority to a full and frank continue to be put to good advantage in
exchange of information on programmes of supporting any initiative taken by Members in
assistance for the unemployed. this respect in cases where there is insufficient
25. With a view to reaching at least the national expertise.
standards laid down in Part IV (Unemployment (4) When the conditions specified in
Benefit) of the Social Security (Minimum subparagraph (1) above are met, Members
Standards) Convention, 1952, Members which should, as rapidly as their resources permit, and
intend to develop their system of protection if necessary in stages, introduce programmes for
against unemployment should be guided, in so the protection of the unemployed, including
far as is possible and appropriate, by the social security mechanisms for the
following provisions. compensation of unemployment.
26. (1) Members should be aware of the 27. In cases where the conditions referred to
technical and administrative difficulties involved in Paragraph 26 (1) are not met, Members
in the planning and introduction of social should give priority to special assistance
security mechanisms for the compensation of measures for the most needy unemployed
unemployment. In order to introduce forms of persons, to the extent permitted by the
unemployment compensation through the available resources and in the context of
payment of benefits of a non-discretionary national conditions.
nature, they should seek to meet the following 28. Members which have set up a national
conditions as soon as possible: provident fund might examine the possibility of
(a) the introduction and satisfactory operation of authorising the payment of periodical cash
a free public employment service containing benefits to the holders of accounts whose
a network of employment offices and having earnings are interrupted by long-term
acquired sufficient administrative capacity to unemployment and whose family situation is
collect and analyse information on the precarious in order to provide for their
employment market, to register job offers essential needs. The level of this benefit and
and jobseekers and to verify objectively that the period during which it is payable might be
persons are involuntarily unemployed; limited according to the circumstances, in
(b) a reasonable level of coverage by and particular the amount credited to the account.
extensive experience in the administration 29. Members might also encourage
of other branches of social security employers’ and workers’ organisations to set
deemed to have priority on social and up assistance funds at the enterprise or inter-
economic grounds, such as primary health enterprise level. These could advantageously
care and compensation for employment be introduced in the enterprises and sectors of
accidents. activity which have sufficient economic
(2) Members should, as a major priority, seek to capacity.
meet the conditions set out in subparagraph (1) 30. Members whose laws or regulations
above by promoting a sufficiently high level of require employers to make severance
stable employment offering adequate wages and payments to workers who have lost their jobs
working conditions, in particular through should envisage making provision for the
necessary and appropriate measures, such as employers to bear this responsibility in
vocational guidance and training, to facilitate common through the creation of funds
voluntary matching of skills on the labour market financed by employers’ contributions, so as to
to available job vacancies. ensure the receipt of these payments by the
(3) The co-operation and technical advice of workers concerned.
the International Labour Office should
R191 – Maternity Protection Recommendation, 2000
Preamble of certain proposals with regard to maternity
protection, which is the fourth item on the
The General Conference of the International
agenda of the session, and
Labour Organization,
Having determined that these proposals shall
Having been convened at Geneva by the
take the form of a Recommendation
Governing Body of the International Labour
supplementing the Maternity Protection
Office, and
Convention, 2000 (hereinafter referred to as
having met in its 88th Session on 30 May
“the Convention”),
2000, and Having decided upon the adoption
129

--- Page 136 ---
Building social protection systems
adopts this fifteenth day of June of the year two EMPLOYMENT PROTECTION
thousand the following Recommendation, AND NON-DISCRIMINATION
which may be cited as the Maternity Protection 5. A woman should be entitled to return to
Recommendation, 2000. her former position or an equivalent position
paid at the same rate at the end of her leave
MATERNITY LEAVE
referred to in Article 5 of the Convention. The
1. (1) Members should endeavour to
period of leave referred to in Articles 4 and 5
extend the period of maternity leave referred
of the Convention should be considered as a
to in Article 4 of the Convention to at least 18
period of service for the determination of her
weeks.
rights.
(2) Provision should be made for an
extension of the maternity leave in the event of HEALTH PROTECTION
multiple births. 6. (1) Members should take measures to
(3) To the extent possible, measures should ensure assessment of any workplace risks
be taken to ensure that the woman is entitled related to the safety and health of the pregnant
to choose freely the time at which she takes or nursing woman and her child. The results of
any non-compulsory portion of her maternity the assessment should be made available to
leave, before or after childbirth. the woman concerned.
(2) In any of the situations referred to in
BENEFITS
Article 3 of the Convention or where a
2. Where practicable, and after consultation significant risk has been identified under
with the representative organizations of subparagraph (1) above, measures should
employers and workers, the cash benefits to be taken to provide, on the basis of a medical
which a woman is entitled during leave certificate as appropriate, an alternative to
referred to in Articles 4 and 5 of the Convention such work in the form of:
should be raised to the full amount of the
(a) elimination of risk;
woman’s previous earnings or of such of those
(b) an adaptation of her conditions of work;
earnings as are taken into account for the
purpose of computing benefits. (c) a transfer to another post, without loss of
pay, when such an adaptation is not
3. To the extent possible, the medical
feasible; or
benefits provided for in Article 6, paragraph 7,
of the Convention should include: (d) paid leave, in accordance with national
laws, regulations or practice, when such a
(a) care given in a doctor’s office, at home or
transfer is not feasible.
in a hospital or other medical
establishment by a general practitioner or (3) Measures referred to in subparagraph (2)
a specialist; should in particular be taken in respect of:
(b) maternity care given by a qualified midwife (a) arduous work involving the manual lifting,
or by another maternity service at home or carrying, pushing or pulling of loads;
in a hospital or other medical (b) work involving exposure to biological,
establishment; chemical or physical agents which
(c) maintenance in a hospital or other medical represent a reproductive health hazard;
establishment; (c) work requiring special equilibrium;
(d) any necessary pharmaceutical and medical (d) work involving physical strain due to
supplies, examinations and tests prescribed prolonged periods of sitting or standing, to
by a medical practitioner or other qualified extreme temperatures, or to vibration.
person; and (4) A pregnant or nursing woman should not
(e) dental and surgical care. be obliged to do night work if a medical
certificate declares such work to be
FINANCING OF BENEFITS
incompatible with her pregnancy or nursing.
4. Any contribution due under compulsory
(5) The woman should retain the right to
social insurance providing maternity benefits
return to her job or an equivalent job as soon
and any tax based upon payrolls which is
as it is safe for her to do so.
raised for the purpose of providing such
(6) A woman should be allowed to leave her
benefits, whether paid by both the employer
workplace, if necessary, after notifying her
and the employees or by the employer, should
employer, for the purpose of undergoing
be paid in respect of the total number of men
medical examinations relating to her
and women employed, without distinction of
pregnancy.
sex.
130

--- Page 137 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
BREASTFEEDING MOTHERS expiry of postnatal leave, and where the
7. On production of a medical certificate or mother cannot look after the child, the
other appropriate certification as determined employed father of the child should be entitled
by national law and practice, the frequency to leave of a duration equal to the unexpired
and length of nursing breaks should be portion of the postnatal maternity leave, in
adapted to particular needs. accordance with national law and practice, to
look after the child.
8. Where practicable and with the agreement
of the employer and the woman concerned, it (3) The employed mother or the employed
should be possible to combine the time allotted father of the child should be entitled to parental
for daily nursing breaks to allow a reduction of leave during a period following the expiry of
hours of work at the beginning or at the end of maternity leave.
the working day. (4) The period during which parental leave
9. Where practicable, provision should be might be granted, the length of the leave and
made for the establishment of facilities for other modalities, including the payment of
nursing under adequate hygienic conditions at parental benefits and the use and distribution
or near the workplace. of parental leave between the employed
parents, should be determined by national
RELATED TYPES OF LEAVE laws or regulations or in any manner
10. (1) In the case of the death of the consistent with national practice.
mother before the expiry of postnatal leave, (5) Where national law and practice provide
the employed father of the child should be for adoption, adoptive parents should have
entitled to take leave of a duration equal to the access to the system of protection offered by
unexpired portion of the postnatal maternity the Convention, especially regarding leave,
leave. benefits and employment protection.
(2) In the case of sickness or hospitalization
of the mother after childbirth and before the
R202 – Social Protection Floors Recommendation, 2012
Preamble a transition to a more sustainable economy,
and
The General Conference of the International
Labour Organization, Considering that the prioritization of policies
aimed at sustainable long-term growth
Having been convened at Geneva by the
associated with social inclusion helps
Governing Body of the International Labour
overcome extreme poverty and reduces social
Office, and having met in its 101st Session on
inequalities and differences within and among
30 May 2012, and
regions, and
Reaffirming that the right to social security is a
Recognizing that the transition to formal
human right, and
employment and the establishment of
Acknowledging that the right to social security
sustainable social security systems are
is, along with promoting employment, an
mutually supportive, and
economic and social necessity for
Recalling that the Declaration of Philadelphia
development and progress, and
recognizes the solemn obligation of the
Recognizing that social security is an
International Labour Organization to contribute
important tool to prevent and reduce poverty,
to “achiev[ing] ... the extension of social
inequality, social exclusion and social
security measures to provide a basic income
insecurity, to promote equal opportunity and
to all in need of such protection and
gender and racial equality, and to support the
comprehensive medical care”, and
transition from informal to formal employment,
Considering the Universal Declaration of
and
Human Rights, in particular Articles 22 and 25,
Considering that social security is an
and the International Covenant on Economic,
investment in people that empowers them to
Social and Cultural Rights, in particular
adjust to changes in the economy and in the
Articles 9, 11 and 12, and
labour market, and that social security systems
Considering also ILO social security standards, in
act as automatic social and economic
particular the Social Security (Minimum
stabilizers, help stimulate aggregate demand
Standards) Convention, 1952 (No. 102), the
in times of crisis and beyond, and help support
Income Security Recommendation, 1944
131

--- Page 138 ---
Building social protection systems
(No. 67), and the Medical Care alleviating poverty, vulnerability and social
Recommendation, 1944 (No. 69), and noting that exclusion.
these standards are of continuing relevance and 3. Recognizing the overall and primary
continue to be important references for social responsibility of the State in giving effect to this
security systems, and Recommendation, Members should apply the
Recalling that the ILO Declaration on Social following principles:
Justice for a Fair Globalization recognizes that (a) universality of protection, based on social
“the commitments and efforts of Members and solidarity;
the Organization to implement the ILO’s
(b) entitlement to benefits prescribed by
constitutional mandate, including through
national law;
international labour standards, and to place full
(c) adequacy and predictability of benefits;
and productive employment and decent work
at the centre of economic and social policies, (d) non-discrimination, gender equality and
should be based on ... (ii) developing and responsiveness to special needs;
enhancing measures of social protection ... (e) social inclusion, including of persons in the
which are sustainable and adapted to national informal economy;
circumstances, including ... the extension of (f) respect for the rights and dignity of people
social security to all”, and covered by the social security guarantees;
Considering the resolution and Conclusions (g) progressive realization, including by
concerning the recurrent discussion on social setting targets and time frames;
protection (social security) adopted by the
(h) solidarity in financing while seeking to
International Labour Conference at its
achieve an optimal balance between the
100th Session (2011), which recognize the
responsibilities and interests among those
need for a Recommendation complementing
who finance and benefit from social
existing ILO social security standards and
security schemes;
providing guidance to Members in building
social protection floors tailored to national (i) consideration of diversity of methods and
circumstances and levels of development, as approaches, including of financing
part of comprehensive social security systems, mechanisms and delivery systems;
and (j) transparent, accountable and sound
Having decided upon the adoption of certain financial management and administration;
proposals with regard to social protection (k) financial, fiscal and economic sustainability
floors, which are the subject of the fourth item with due regard to social justice and equity;
on the agenda of the session, and (l) coherence with social, economic and
Having determined that these proposals shall employment policies;
take the form of a Recommendation; (m) coherence across institutions responsible
adopts this fourteenth day of June of the year for delivery of social protection;
two thousand and twelve the following (n) high-quality public services that enhance
Recommendation, which may be cited as the the delivery of social security systems;
Social Protection Floors Recommendation,
(o) efficiency and accessibility of complaint
2012.
and appeal procedures;
I. OBJECTIVES, SCOPE (p) regular monitoring of implementation, and
AND PRINCIPLES periodic evaluation;
1. This Recommendation provides guidance (q) full respect for collective bargaining and
to Members to: freedom of association for all workers; and
(a) establish and maintain, as applicable, (r) tripartite participation with representative
social protection floors as a fundamental organizations of employers and workers,
element of their national social security as well as consultation with other relevant
systems; and and representative organizations of
(b) implement social protection floors within persons concerned.
strategies for the extension of social
II. NATIONAL SOCIAL PROTECTION
security that progressively ensure higher
FLOORS
levels of social security to as many people
4. Members should, in accordance with
as possible, guided by ILO social security
national circumstances, establish as quickly as
standards.
possible and maintain their social protection
2. For the purpose of this Recommendation,
floors comprising basic social security
social protection floors are nationally defined
guarantees. The guarantees should ensure at
sets of basic social security guarantees which
a minimum that, over the life cycle, all in need
secure protection aimed at preventing or
132

--- Page 139 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
have access to essential health care and to thresholds for social assistance or other
basic income security which together secure comparable thresholds established by
effective access to goods and services defined national law or practice, and may take into
as necessary at the national level. account regional differences;
5. The social protection floors referred to in (c) the levels of basic social security
Paragraph 4 should comprise at least the guarantees should be regularly reviewed
following basic social security guarantees: through a transparent procedure that is
(a) access to a nationally defined set of goods established by national laws, regulations
and services, constituting essential health or practice, as appropriate; and
care, including maternity care, that meets (d) in regard to the establishment and review
the criteria of availability, accessibility, of the levels of these guarantees,
acceptability and quality; tripartite participation with representative
(b) basic income security for children, at least organizations of employers and workers,
at a nationally defined minimum level, as well as consultation with other relevant
providing access to nutrition, education, and representative organizations of
care and any other necessary goods and persons concerned, should be ensured.
services; 9. (1) In providing the basic social security
(c) basic income security, at least at a guarantees, Members should consider
nationally defined minimum level, for different approaches with a view to
persons in active age who are unable to implementing the most effective and efficient
earn sufficient income, in particular in combination of benefits and schemes in the
cases of sickness, unemployment, national context.
maternity and disability; and (2) Benefits may include child and family
(d) basic income security, at least at a benefits, sickness and health-care benefits,
nationally defined minimum level, for older maternity benefits, disability benefits, old-age
persons. benefits, survivors’ benefits, unemployment
benefits and employment guarantees, and
6. Subject to their existing international
employment injury benefits as well as any
obligations, Members should provide the basic
other social benefits in cash or in kind.
social security guarantees referred to in this
Recommendation to at least all residents and (3) Schemes providing such benefits may
children, as defined in national laws and include universal benefit schemes, social
regulations. insurance schemes, social assistance
schemes, negative income tax schemes,
7. Basic social security guarantees should
public employment schemes and employment
be established by law. National laws and
support schemes.
regulations should specify the range,
qualifying conditions and levels of the benefits 10. In designing and implementing national
giving effect to these guarantees. Impartial, social protection floors, Members should:
transparent, effective, simple, rapid, (a) combine preventive, promotional and
accessible and inexpensive complaint and active measures, benefits and social
appeal procedures should also be specified. services;
Access to complaint and appeal procedures (b) promote productive economic activity and
should be free of charge to the applicant. formal employment through considering
Systems should be in place that enhance policies that include public procurement,
compliance with national legal frameworks. government credit provisions, labour
8. When defining the basic social security inspection, labour market policies and tax
guarantees, Members should give due incentives, and that promote education,
consideration to the following: vocational training, productive skills and
(a) persons in need of health care should not employability; and
face hardship and an increased risk of (c) ensure coordination with other policies
poverty due to the financial consequences that enhance formal employment, income
of accessing essential health care. Free generation, education, literacy, vocational
prenatal and postnatal medical care for the training, skills and employability, that
most vulnerable should also be reduce precariousness, and that promote
considered; secure work, entrepreneurship and
(b) basic income security should allow life in sustainable enterprises within a decent
dignity. Nationally defined minimum levels work framework.
of income may correspond to the monetary 11. (1) Members should consider using a
value of a set of necessary goods and variety of different methods to mobilize the
services, national poverty lines, income necessary resources to ensure financial, fiscal
133

--- Page 140 ---
Building social protection systems
and economic sustainability of national social (e) specify financial requirements and
protection floors, taking into account the resources as well as the time frame and
contributory capacities of different population sequencing for the progressive
groups. Such methods may include, individually achievement of the objectives; and
or in combination, effective enforcement of tax (f) raise awareness about their social
and contribution obligations, reprioritizing protection floors and their extension
expenditure, or a broader and sufficiently strategies, and undertake information
progressive revenue base. programmes, including through social
11. (2) In applying such methods, dialogue.
Members should consider the need to 15. Social security extension strategies
implement measures to prevent fraud, tax should apply to persons both in the formal and
evasion and non-payment of contributions. informal economy and support the growth of
12. National social protection floors should formal employment and the reduction of
be financed by national resources. Members informality, and should be consistent with, and
whose economic and fiscal capacities are conducive to, the implementation of the social,
insufficient to implement the guarantees may economic and environmental development
seek international cooperation and support plans of Members.
that complement their own efforts. 16. Social security extension strategies
should ensure support for disadvantaged
III. NATIONAL STRATEGIES FOR
groups and people with special needs.
THE EXTENSION OF SOCIAL SECURITY
17. When building comprehensive social
13. (1) Members should formulate and
security systems reflecting national objectives,
implement national social security extension
priorities and economic and fiscal capacities,
strategies, based on national consultations
Members should aim to achieve the range and
through effective social dialogue and social
levels of benefits set out in the Social Security
participation. National strategies should:
(Minimum Standards) Convention, 1952
(a) prioritize the implementation of social
(No. 102), or in other ILO social security
protection floors as a starting point for
Conventions and Recommendations setting
countries that do not have a minimum level
out more advanced standards.
of social security guarantees, and as a
18. Members should consider ratifying, as
fundamental element of their national
early as national circumstances allow, the
social security systems; and
Social Security (Minimum Standards)
(b) seek to provide higher levels of protection
Convention, 1952 (No. 102). Furthermore,
to as many people as possible, reflecting
Members should consider ratifying, or giving
economic and fiscal capacities of
effect to, as applicable, other ILO social
Members, and as soon as possible.
security Conventions and Recommendations
11. (2) For this purpose, Members should setting out more advanced standards.
progressively build and maintain
comprehensive and adequate social security IV. MONITORING
systems coherent with national policy 19. Members should monitor progress in
objectives and seek to coordinate social implementing social protection floors and
security policies with other public policies. achieving other objectives of national social
14. When formulating and implementing security extension strategies through
national social security extension strategies, appropriate nationally defined mechanisms,
Members should: including tripartite participation with
representative organizations of employers and
(a) set objectives reflecting national priorities;
workers, as well as consultation with other
(b) identify gaps in, and barriers to, protection;
relevant and representative organizations of
(c) seek to close gaps in protection through persons concerned.
appropriate and effectively coordinated
20. Members should regularly convene
schemes, whether contributory or non-
national consultations to assess progress and
contributory, or both, including through the
discuss policies for the further horizontal and
extension of existing contributory schemes
vertical extension of social security.
to all concerned persons with contributory
21. For the purpose of Paragraph 19,
capacity;
Members should regularly collect, compile,
(d) complement social security with active
analyse and publish an appropriate range of
labour market policies, including
social security data, statistics and indicators,
vocational training or other measures, as
disaggregated, in particular, by gender.
appropriate;
22. In developing or revising the concepts,
definitions and methodology used in the
134

--- Page 141 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
production of social security data, statistics 24. (1) Members are encouraged to
and indicators, Members should take into exchange information, experiences and
consideration relevant guidance provided by expertise on social security strategies, policies
the International Labour Organization, in and practices among themselves and with the
particular, as appropriate, the resolution International Labour Office.
concerning the development of social security 24. (2) In implementing this Recommendation,
statistics adopted by the Ninth International Members may seek technical assistance from the
Conference of Labour Statisticians. International Labour Organization and other
23. Members should establish a legal relevant international organizations in accordance
framework to secure and protect private with their respective mandates.
individual information contained in their social
security data systems.
R204 – Transition from the Informal to the Formal Economy
Recommendation, 2015 (No. 204)
Preamble Declaration on Social Justice for a Fair
Globalization, 2008, and
The General Conference of the International
Labour Organization, Reaffirming the relevance of the eight ILO
fundamental Conventions and other relevant
Having been convened at Geneva by the
international labour standards and United
Governing Body of the International Labour
Nations instruments as listed in the Annex, and
Office, and having met in its 104th Session on
Recalling the resolution and Conclusions
1 June 2015, and
concerning decent work and the informal
Recognizing that the high incidence of the
economy adopted by the International Labour
informal economy in all its aspects is a major
Conference at its 90th Session (2002), and
challenge for the rights of workers, including
other relevant resolutions and Conclusions as
the fundamental principles and rights at work,
listed in the Annex, and
and for social protection, decent working
conditions, inclusive development and the rule Affirming that the transition from the informal
of law, and has a negative impact on the to the formal economy is essential to achieve
development of sustainable enterprises, public inclusive development and to realize decent
revenues and governments’ scope of action, work for all, and
particularly with regard to economic, social and Recognizing the need for Members to take
environmental policies, the soundness of urgent and appropriate measures to enable
institutions and fair competition in national and the transition of workers and economic units
international markets, and from the informal to the formal economy, while
Acknowledging that most people enter the ensuring the preservation and improvement of
informal economy not by choice but as a existing livelihoods during the transition, and
consequence of a lack of opportunities in the Recognizing that employers’ and workers’
formal economy and in the absence of other organizations play an important and active role
means of livelihood, and in facilitating the transition from the informal to
Recalling that decent work deficits – the denial the formal economy, and
of rights at work, the absence of sufficient Having decided upon the adoption of certain
opportunities for quality employment, proposals with regard to the transition from the
inadequate social protection and the absence informal to the formal economy, which is the
of social dialogue – are most pronounced in fifth item on the agenda of the session, and
the informal economy, and Having determined that these proposals shall
Acknowledging that informality has multiple take the form of a Recommendation;
causes, including governance and structural adopts this twelfth day of June of the year two
issues, and that public policies can speed up thousand and fifteen the following
the process of transition to the formal Recommendation, which may be cited as the
economy, in a context of social dialogue, and Transition from the Informal to the Formal
Recalling the Declaration of Philadelphia, Economy Recommendation, 2015.
1944, the Universal Declaration of Human
I. OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE
Rights, 1948, the ILO Declaration on
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work 1. This Recommendation provides guidance
and its Follow-up, 1998, and the ILO to Members to:
135

--- Page 142 ---
Building social protection systems
(a) facilitate the transition of workers and eco- (d) workers in unrecognized or unregulated
nomic units from the informal to the formal employment relationships.
economy, while respecting workers’ funda- 5. Informal work may be found across all
mental rights and ensuring opportunities for sectors of the economy, in both public and
income security, livelihoods and entrepre- private spaces.
neurship;
6. In giving effect to the provisions of
(b) promote the creation, preservation and Paragraphs 2 to 5 above, and given the diversity
sustainability of enterprises and decent jobs of the informal economy across member States,
in the formal economy and the coherence of the competent authority should identify the
macroeconomic, employment, social nature and extent of the informal economy as
protection and other social policies; and described in this Recommendation, and its
(c) prevent the informalization of formal relationship to the formal economy. In so doing,
economy jobs. the competent authority should make use of
2. For the purposes of this Recommenda- tripartite mechanisms with the full participation
tion, the term “informal economy”: of the most representative employers’ and
workers’ organizations, which should include in
(a) refers to all economic activities by workers
their rank, according to national practice,
and economic units that are – in law or in
representatives of membership-based
practice – not covered or insufficiently
representative organizations of workers and
covered by formal arrangements; and
economic units in the informal economy.
(b) does not cover illicit activities, in particular
the provision of services or the production, II. GUIDING PRINCIPLES
sale, possession or use of goods forbidden 7. In designing coherent and integrated
by law, including the illicit production and strategies to facilitate the transition to the
trafficking of drugs, the illicit manufacturing formal economy, Members should take into
of and trafficking in firearms, trafficking in account the following:
persons, and money laundering, as
(a) the diversity of characteristics,
defined in the relevant international
circumstances and needs of workers and
treaties.
economic units in the informal economy, and
3. For the purposes of this Recommenda- the necessity to address such diversity with
tion, “economic units” in the informal economy tailored approaches;
include:
(b) the specific national circumstances,
(a) units that employ hired labour; legislation, policies, practices and
(b) units that are owned by individuals working priorities for the transition to the formal
on their own account, either alone or with economy;
the help of contributing family workers; and (c) the fact that different and multiple
(c) cooperatives and social and solidarity strategies can be applied to facilitate the
economy units. transition to the formal economy;
4. This Recommendation applies to all (d) the need for coherence and coordination
workers and economic units – including across a broad range of policy areas in
enterprises, entrepreneurs and households – facilitating the transition to the formal
in the informal economy, in particular: economy;
(a) those in the informal economy who own (e) the effective promotion and protection of
and operate economic units, including: the human rights of all those operating in
(i) own-account workers; the informal economy;
(ii) employers; and (f) the fulfilment of decent work for all through
respect for the fundamental principles and
(iii) members of cooperatives and of social
rights at work, in law and practice;
and solidarity economy units;
(g) the up-to-date international labour
(b) contributing family workers, irrespective of
standards that provide guidance in specific
whether they work in economic units in the
policy areas (see Annex);
formal or informal economy;
(h) the promotion of gender equality and non-
(c) employees holding informal jobs in or for
discrimination;
formal enterprises, or in or for economic
units in the informal economy, including (i) the need to pay special attention to those
but not limited to those in subcontracting who are especially vulnerable to the most
and in supply chains, or as paid domestic serious decent work deficits in the informal
workers employed by households; and economy, including but not limited to
women, young people, migrants, older
people, indigenous and tribal peoples,
136

--- Page 143 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
persons living with HIV or affected by HIV or (g) the promotion of entrepreneurship, micro,
AIDS, persons with disabilities, domestic small and medium-sized enterprises, and
workers and subsistence farmers; other forms of business models and
(j) the preservation and expansion, during economic units, such as cooperatives and
the transition to the formal economy, of the other social and solidarity economy units;
entrepreneurial potential, creativity, (h) access to education, lifelong learning and
dynamism, skills and innovative capacities skills development;
of workers and economic units in the (i) access to financial services, including
informal economy; through a regulatory framework promoting
(k) the need for a balanced approach an inclusive financial sector;
combining incentives with compliance (j) access to business services;
measures; and
(k) access to markets;
(l) the need to prevent and sanction
(l) access to infrastructure and technology;
deliberate avoidance of, or exit from, the
(m) the promotion of sectoral policies;
formal economy for the purpose of evading
taxation and the application of social and (n) the establishment of social protection
labour laws and regulations. floors, where they do not exist, and the
extension of social security coverage;
III. LEGAL AND POLICY FRAMEWORKS
(o) the promotion of local development
8. Members should undertake a proper strategies, both rural and urban, including
assessment and diagnostics of factors, regulated access for use of public space
characteristics, causes and circumstances of and regulated access to public natural
informality in the national context to inform the resources for subsistence livelihoods;
design and implementation of laws and
(p) effective occupational safety and health
regulations, policies and other measures
policies;
aiming to facilitate the transition to the formal
(q) efficient and effective labour inspections;
economy.
(r) income security, including appropriately
9. Members should adopt, review and
designed minimum wage policies;
enforce national laws and regulations or other
measures to ensure appropriate coverage and (s) effective access to justice; and
protection of all categories of workers and (t) international cooperation mechanisms.
economic units. 12. When formulating and implementing an
10. Members should ensure that an integrated integrated policy framework, Members should
policy framework to facilitate the transition to the ensure coordination across different levels of
formal economy is included in national government and cooperation between the
development strategies or plans as well as in relevant bodies and authorities, such as tax
poverty reduction strategies and budgets, taking authorities, social security institutions, labour
into account, where appropriate, the role of inspectorates, customs authorities, migration
different levels of government. bodies and employment services, among
11. This integrated policy framework should others, depending on national circumstances.
address: 13. Members should recognize the
(a) the promotion of strategies for sustainable importance of safeguarding the opportunities
development, poverty eradication and of workers and economic units for income
inclusive growth, and the generation of security in the transition to the formal economy
decent jobs in the formal economy; by providing the means for such workers or
economic units to obtain recognition of their
(b) the establishment of an appropriate
existing property as well as by providing the
legislative and regulatory framework;
means to formalize property rights and access
(c) the promotion of a conducive business and
to land.
investment environment;
(d) respect for and promotion and realization IV. EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
of the fundamental principles and rights at 14. In pursuing the objective of quality job
work; creation in the formal economy, Members
(e) the organization and representation of should formulate and implement a national
employers and workers to promote social employment policy in line with the Employment
dialogue; Policy Convention, 1964 (No. 122), and make
full, decent, productive and freely chosen
(f) the promotion of equality and the
employment a central goal in their national
elimination of all forms of discrimination
development and growth strategy or plan.
and violence, including gender-based
violence, at the workplace;
137

--- Page 144 ---
Building social protection systems
15. Members should promote the persons, women and other disadvantaged
implementation of a comprehensive groups; and
employment policy framework, based on (i) relevant, accessible and up-to-date labour
tripartite consultations, that may include the market information systems.
following elements:
V. RIGHTS AND SOCIAL PROTECTION
(a) pro-employment macroeconomic policies
that support aggregate demand, productive 16. Members should take measures to
investment and structural transformation, achieve decent work and to respect, promote
promote sustainable enterprises, support and realize the fundamental principles and
business confidence, and address rights at work for those in the informal
inequalities; economy, namely:
(b) trade, industrial, tax, sectoral and (a) freedom of association and the effective
infrastructure policies that promote recognition of the right to collective
employment, enhance productivity and bargaining;
facilitate structural transformation processes; (b) the elimination of all forms of forced or
(c) enterprise policies that promote sustainable compulsory labour;
enterprises and, in particular, the conditions (c) the effective abolition of child labour; and
for a conducive environment, taking into (d) the elimination of discrimination in respect
account the resolution and Conclusions of employment and occupation.
concerning the promotion of sustainable
17. Members should:
enterprises adopted by the International
Labour Conference at its 96th Session (a) take immediate measures to address the
(2007), including support to micro, small unsafe and unhealthy working conditions
and medium-sized enterprises and that often characterize work in the informal
entrepreneurship, and well-designed, economy; and
transparent and well-communicated (b) promote and extend occupational safety
regulations to facilitate formalization and fair and health protection to employers and
competition; workers in the informal economy.
(d) labour market policies and institutions to 18. Through the transition to the formal
help low-income households to escape economy, Members should progressively
poverty and access freely chosen extend, in law and practice, to all workers in
employment, such as appropriately the informal economy, social security,
designed wage policies including maternity protection, decent working
minimum wages, social protection conditions and a minimum wage that takes into
schemes including cash transfers, public account the needs of workers and considers
employment programmes and relevant factors, including but not limited to the
guarantees, and enhanced outreach and cost of living and the general level of wages in
delivery of employment services to those their country.
in the informal economy; 19. In building and maintaining national
(e) labour migration policies that take into social protection floors within their social
account labour market needs and promote security system and facilitating the transition to
decent work and the rights of migrant the formal economy, Members should pay
workers; particular attention to the needs and
(f) education and skills development policies circumstances of those in the informal
that support lifelong learning, respond to economy and their families.
the evolving needs of the labour market 20. Through the transition to the formal
and to new technologies, and recognize economy, Members should progressively
prior learning such as through informal ap- extend the coverage of social insurance to
prenticeship systems, thereby broadening those in the informal economy and, if
options for formal employment; necessary, adapt administrative procedures,
(g) comprehensive activation measures to benefits and contributions, taking into account
facilitate the school-to-work transition of their contributory capacity.
young people, in particular those who are 21. Members should encourage the
disadvantaged, such as youth guarantee provision of and access to affordable quality
schemes to provide access to training and childcare and other care services in order to
continuing productive employment; promote gender equality in entrepreneurship
(h) measures to promote the transition from and employment opportunities and to enable
unemployment or inactivity to work, in the transition to the formal economy.
particular for long-term unemployed
138

--- Page 145 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
VI. INCENTIVES, COMPLIANCE 27. Members should have an adequate and
AND ENFORCEMENT appropriate system of inspection, extend
22. Members should take appropriate coverage of labour inspection to all workplaces
measures, including through a combination of in the informal economy in order to protect
preventive measures, law enforcement and workers, and provide guidance for
effective sanctions, to address tax evasion and enforcement bodies, including on how to
avoidance of social contributions, labour laws address working conditions in the informal
and regulations. Any incentives should be economy.
linked to facilitating the effective and timely 28. Members should take measures to
transition from the informal to the formal ensure the effective provision of information,
economy. assistance in complying with the relevant laws
23. Members should reduce, where and regulations, and capacity building for
appropriate, the barriers to the transition to the relevant actors.
formal economy and take measures to 29. Members should put in place efficient
promote anti-corruption efforts and good and accessible complaint and appeal
governance. procedures.
24. Members should provide incentives for, 30. Members should provide for preventive
and promote the advantages of, effective and appropriate corrective measures to
transition to the formal economy, including facilitate the transition to the formal economy,
improved access to business services, and ensure that the administrative, civil or
finance, infrastructure, markets, technology, penal sanctions provided for by national laws
education and skills programmes, and for non-compliance are adequate and strictly
property rights. enforced.
25. With respect to the formalization of micro
VII. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION,
and small economic units, Members should:
SOCIAL DIALOGUE AND
(a) undertake business entry reforms by ROLE OF EMPLOYERS’ AND
reducing registration costs and the length of WORKERS’ ORGANIZATIONS
the procedure, and by improving access to
31. Members should ensure that those in the
services, for example, through information
informal economy enjoy freedom of
and communication technologies;
association and the right to collective
(b) reduce compliance costs by introducing bargaining, including the right to establish and,
simplified tax and contributions subject to the rules of the organization
assessment and payment regimes; concerned, to join organizations, federations
(c) promote access to public procurement, and confederations of their own choosing
consistent with national legislation, 32. Members should create an enabling
including labour legislation, through environment for employers and workers to
measures such as adapting procurement exercise their right to organize and to bargain
procedures and volumes, providing collectively and to participate in social dialogue
training and advice on participating in in the transition to the formal economy
public tenders, and reserving quotas for
33. Employers’ and workers’ organizations
these economic units;
should, where appropriate, extend
(d) improve access to inclusive financial membership and services to workers and
services, such as credit and equity, economic units in the informal economy
payment and insurance services, savings,
34. In designing, implementing and
and guarantee schemes, tailored to the
evaluating policies and programmes of
size and needs of these economic units;
relevance to the informal economy, including
(e) improve access to entrepreneurship its formalization, Members should consult with
training, skills development and tailored and promote active participation of the most
business development services; and representative employers’ and workers’
(f) improve access to social security organizations, which should include in their
coverage. rank, according to national practice,
26. Members should put in place appropriate representatives of membership-based
mechanisms or review existing mechanisms representative organizations of workers and
with a view to ensuring compliance with economic units in the informal economy
national laws and regulations, including but not 35. Members and employers’ and workers’
limited to ensuring recognition and organizations may seek the assistance of the
enforcement of employment relationships, so International Labour Office to strengthen the
as to facilitate the transition to the formal capacity of the representative employers’ and
economy. workers’ organizations and, where they exist,
139

--- Page 146 ---
Building social protection systems
representative organizations of those in the according to national practice, representatives of
informal economy, to assist workers and membership-based representative
economic units in the informal economy, with organizations of workers and economic units in
a view to facilitating the transition to the formal the informal economy.
economy 40. In establishing, developing, implementing
and periodically reviewing the measures taken
VIII. DATA COLLECTION AND
to facilitate the transition to the formal economy,
MONITORING
Members should take into account the guidance
36. Members should, in consultation with
provided by the instruments of the International
employers’ and workers’ organizations, on a
Labour Organization and the United Nations
regular basis:
relevant to the informal economy listed in the
(a) where possible and as appropriate, Annex.
collect, analyse and disseminate statistics
41. Nothing in this Recommendation should
disaggregated by sex, age, workplace,
be construed as reducing the protections
and other specific socio-economic charac-
afforded to those in the informal economy by
teristics on the size and composition of the
other instruments of the International Labour
informal economy, including the number of
Organization.
informal economic units, the number of
42. The Annex may be revised by the
workers employed and their sectors; and
Governing Body of the International Labour
(b) monitor and evaluate the progress
Office. Any revised Annex so established,
towards formalization.
once approved by the Governing Body, shall
37. In developing or revising the concepts, replace the preceding annex and shall be
definitions and methodology used in the communicated to the Members of the
production of data, statistics and indicators on International Labour Organization.
the informal economy, Members should take
into consideration relevant guidance provided ANNEX
by the International Labour Organization, in Instruments of the International Labour
particular and as appropriate, the guidelines Organization and the United Nations
concerning a statistical definition of informal relevant to facilitating the transition from
employment adopted by the 17th International the informal to the formal economy
Conference of Labour Statisticians in 2003 and Instruments of the International Labour
their subsequent updates. Organization
IX. IMPLEMENTATION Fundamental Conventions
38. Members should give effect to the – Forced Labour Convention, 1930 (No. 29),
provisions of this Recommendation, in and Protocol of 2014 to the Forced Labour
consultation with the most representative Convention, 1930
employers’ and workers’ organizations, which
– Freedom of Association and Protection of
should include in their rank, according to national
the Right to Organise Convention, 1948
practice, representatives of membership-based
(No. 87)
representative organizations of workers and
– Right to Organise and Collective
economic units in the informal economy, by one
Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98)
or a combination of the following means, as
appropriate; – Equal Remuneration Convention, 1951
(No. 100)
(a) national laws and regulations;
– Abolition of Forced Labour Convention,
(b) collective agreements;
1957 (No. 105)
(c) policies and programmes;
– Discrimination (Employment and
(d) effective coordination among government
Occupation) Convention, 1958 (No. 111)
bodies and other stakeholders;
– Minimum Age Convention, 1973 (No. 138)
(e) institutional capacity building and resource
– Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention,
mobilization; and
1999 (No. 182)
(f) other measures consistent with national
law and practice. Governance Conventions
39. Members should review on a regular basis, – Labour Inspection Convention, 1947 (No 81)
as appropriate, the effectiveness of policies and – Employment Policy Convention, 1964
measures to facilitate the transition to the formal (No. 122)
economy, in consultation with the most
– Labour Inspection (Agriculture) Convention,
representative employers’ and workers’
1969 (No. 129)
organizations, which should include in their rank,
140

--- Page 147 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
– Tripartite Consultation (International Labour – Promotional Framework for Occupational
Standards) Convention, 1976 (No. 144) Safety and Health Convention, 2006
(No. 187)
Other instruments
Social security
Freedom of association, collective bargaining
– Social Security (Minimum Standards)
and industrial relations
Convention, 1952 (No. 102)
– Rural Workers’ Organisations Convention,
– Social Protection Floors
1975 (No. 141)
Recommendation, 2012 (No. 202)
– Collective Bargaining Convention, 1981
Maternity protection
(No. 154)
– Maternity Protection Convention, 2000
Equality of opportunity and treatment
(No. 183)
– Workers with Family Responsibilities
Migrant workers
Convention, 1981 (No. 156)
– Migration for Employment Convention
Employment policy and promotion
(Revised), 1949 (No. 97)
– Employment Policy Recommendation,
– Migrant Workers (Supplementary
1964 (No. 122)
Provisions) Convention, 1975 (No. 143)
– Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment
HIV and AIDS
(Disabled Persons) Convention, 1983
(No. 159) – HIV and AIDS Recommendation, 2010
(No. 200)
– Employment Policy (Supplementary
Provisions) Recommendation, 1984 Indigenous and tribal peoples
(No. 169) – Indigenous and Tribal Peoples
– Private Employment Agencies Convention, 1989 (No. 169)
Convention, 1997 (No. 181) Specific categories of workers
– Job Creation in Small and Medium-Sized – Home Work Convention, 1996 (No. 177)
Enterprises Recommendation, 1998 – Domestic Workers Convention (No. 189)
(No. 189) and Recommendation (No. 201), 2011
– Promotion of Cooperatives Resolutions of the International Labour
Recommendation, 2002 (No. 193) Conference
– Employment Relationship – Resolution and Conclusions concerning
Recommendation, 2006 (No. 198) the promotion of sustainable enterprises
Vocational guidance and training adopted by the International Labour
– Human Resources Development Conference at its 96th Session (2007)
Convention, 1975 (No. 142) – Resolution and Conclusions concerning
– Human Resources Development the youth employment crisis adopted by
Recommendation, 2004 (No. 195) the International Labour Conference at its
101st Session (2012)
Wages
– Resolution and Conclusions concerning
– Labour Clauses (Public Contracts)
the second recurrent discussion on
Convention (No. 94) and
employment adopted by the International
Recommendation (No. 84), 1949
Labour Conference at its 103rd Session
– Minimum Wage Fixing Convention
(2014)
(No. 131) and Recommendation (No. 135),
United Nations instruments
1970
– Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
Occupational safety and health
1948
– Occupational Safety and Health
– International Covenant on Economic,
Convention, 1981 (No. 155)
Social and Cultural Rights, 1966
– Safety and Health in Agriculture Convention
– International Covenant on Civil and
(No. 184) and Recommendation (No. 192),
Political Rights, 1966
2001
– International Convention on the Protection
of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and
Members of Their Families, 1990
141

--- Page 148 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
R205 – Employment and Decent Work for Peace and Resilience
Recommendation, 2017
Preamble Recognizing the importance of developing
The General Conference of the International responses, through social dialogue, to crisis
Labour Organization, situations arising from conflicts and disasters,
in consultation with the most representative
Having been convened at Geneva by the
employers’ and workers’ organizations and, as
Governing Body of the International Labour
appropriate, with relevant civil society
Office, and having met in its 106th Session on
organizations, and
5 June 2017, and
Noting the importance of creating or restoring
Reaffirming the principle in the Constitution of
an enabling environment for sustainable
the International Labour Organisation (ILO)
enterprises, taking into account the resolution
that universal and lasting peace can be
and Conclusions concerning the promotion of
established only if it is based upon social
sustainable enterprises adopted by the
justice, and
International Labour Conference at its
Recalling the Declaration of Philadelphia 96th Session (2007), and in particular for small
(1944), the Universal Declaration of Human
and medium-sized enterprises, to stimulate
Rights (1948), the ILO Declaration on
employment generation, economic recovery
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work
and development, and
and its Follow-up (1998) and the ILO
Affirming the need to develop and strengthen
Declaration on Social Justice for a Fair
measures of social protection, as a means of
Globalization (2008), and
preventing crises, enabling recovery and
Taking into account the need to revise the
building resilience, and
Employment (Transition from War to Peace)
Recognizing the role of accessible and quality
Recommendation, 1944 (No. 71), with a view
public services in economic recovery,
to broadening its scope and providing up-to-
development, reconstruction efforts,
date guidance on the role of employment and
prevention and resilience, and
decent work in prevention, recovery, peace
and resilience with respect to crisis situations Stressing the need for international
arising from conflicts and disasters, and cooperation and partnerships among regional
and international organizations to ensure joint
Considering the impact and consequences of
and coordinated efforts, and
conflicts and disasters for poverty and
development, human rights and dignity, Having decided upon the adoption of certain
decent work and sustainable enterprises, and proposals with regard to employment and
decent work for peace and resilience, which is
Recognizing the importance of employment
the fifth item on the agenda of the session, and
and decent work for promoting peace,
preventing crisis situations arising from Having determined that these proposals shall
conflicts and disasters, enabling recovery and take the form of a Recommendation,
building resilience, and adopts this sixteenth day of June of the year
Recognizing that the countries receiving two thousand and seventeen the following
refugees may not be in situations of conflicts Recommendation, which may be cited as the
and disasters, and Employment and Decent Work for Peace and
Resilience Recommendation, 2017:
Emphasizing the need to ensure respect for all
human rights and the rule of law, including I. Objectives and scope
respect for fundamental principles and rights at
1. This Recommendation provides guidance
work and for international labour standards, in
to Members on the measures to be taken to
particular those rights and principles relevant
generate employment and decent work for the
to employment and decent work, and
purposes of prevention, recovery, peace and
Considering the need to recognize that crises resilience with respect to crisis situations
affect women and men differently, and the arising from conflicts and disasters.
critical importance of gender equality and the
2. For the purposes of this Recommendation
empowerment of women and girls in promoting
and based upon internationally agreed
peace, preventing crises, enabling recovery
terminology:
and building resilience, and
(a) the term “disaster” means a serious
disruption of the functioning of a
142

--- Page 149 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
community or a society at any scale due to (d) the need to respect national laws and
hazardous events interacting with policies and use local knowledge, capacity
conditions of exposure, vulnerability and and resources;
capacity, leading to one or more of the (e) the nature of the crisis and the extent of its
following: human, material, economic and impact on the capacity of governments,
environmental losses and impacts; and including regional and local government,
(b) the term “resilience” means the ability of a employers’ and workers’ organizations,
system, community or society exposed to and other national and relevant
hazards to resist, absorb, accommodate, institutions, to provide effective responses,
adapt to, transform and recover from the with the necessary international
effects of a hazard in a timely and efficient cooperation and assistance, as required;
manner, including through the (f) the need to combat discrimination,
preservation and restoration of its prejudice and hatred on the basis of race,
essential basic structures and functions colour, sex, religion, political opinion,
through risk management. national extraction, social origin, disability,
3. For the purposes of this age or sexual orientation or any other
Recommendation, the term “crisis response” grounds;
refers to all measures on employment and (g) the need to respect, promote and realize
decent work taken in response to crisis equality of opportunity and treatment for
situations arising from conflicts and disasters. women and men without discrimination of
4. This Recommendation applies to all any kind;
workers and jobseekers, and to all employers, (h) the need to pay special attention to
in all sectors of the economy affected by crisis population groups and individuals who
situations arising from conflicts and disasters. have been made particularly vulnerable by
5. The references in this Recommendation to the crisis, including, but not limited to,
fundamental principles and rights at work, to children, young persons, persons
safety and health and to working conditions belonging to minorities, indigenous and
apply also to workers engaged in crisis tribal peoples, persons with disabilities,
response, including in the immediate internally displaced persons, migrants,
response. The references in this refugees and other persons forcibly
Recommendation to human rights and to displaced across borders;
safety and health apply equally to persons in (i) the importance of identifying and
volunteer work participating in crisis response. monitoring any negative and unintended
6. The provisions of this Recommendation consequences and avoiding harmful
are without prejudice to the rights and spillover effects on individuals,
obligations of Members under international communities, the environment and the
law, in particular international humanitarian economy;
law, international refugee law and international (j) the need for a just transition towards an
human rights law. environmentally sustainable economy as a
means for sustainable economic growth
II. Guiding principles
and social progress;
7. In taking measures on employment and
(k) the importance of social dialogue;
decent work in response to crisis situations
arising from conflicts and disasters, and with a (l) the importance of national reconciliation,
view to prevention, Members should take into where applicable;
account the following: (m) the need for international solidarity,
(a) the promotion of full, productive, freely burden and responsibility-sharing and
chosen employment and decent work cooperation in accordance with
which are vital to promoting peace, international law; and
preventing crises, enabling recovery and (n) the need for close coordination and
building resilience; synergies between humanitarian and
(b) the need to respect, promote and realize development assistance, including for the
the fundamental principles and rights at promotion of full, productive, freely chosen
work, other human rights and other employment and decent work and income
relevant international labour standards, generation opportunities, avoiding the
and to take into account other international duplication of efforts and mandates.
instruments and documents, as
III. Strategic approaches
appropriate and applicable;
8. Members should adopt a phased multi-
(c) the importance of good governance and
track approach implementing coherent and
combating corruption and clientelism;
143

--- Page 150 ---
Building social protection systems
comprehensive strategies for promoting of employers’ and workers’ organizations;
peace, preventing crises, enabling recovery and
and building resilience that include: (l) taking measures, as appropriate, for the
(a) stabilizing livelihoods and income through socio-economic reintegration of persons
immediate social protection and who have been affected by a crisis, in
employment measures; particular those formerly associated with
(b) promoting local economic recovery for armed forces and groups, including
employment and decent work through training programmes that aim to
opportunities and socio-economic improve their employability.
reintegration; 9. Crisis response in the immediate
(c) promoting sustainable employment and aftermath of a conflict or disaster should
decent work, social protection and social include, as appropriate:
inclusion, sustainable development, the (a) a coordinated and inclusive needs
creation of sustainable enterprises, in assessment with a clear gender
particular small and medium-sized perspective;
enterprises, the transition from the (b) an urgent response to satisfy basic needs
informal to the formal economy, a just and provide services, including social
transition towards an environmentally protection, support to livelihoods,
sustainable economy and access to public immediate employment measures and
services; income-generation opportunities for
(d) ensuring consultation and encouraging population groups and individuals who
active participation of employers’ and have been made particularly vulnerable by
workers’ organizations in planning, the crisis;
implementing and monitoring measures (c) assistance, provided to the extent possible
for recovery and resilience, taking into by public authorities with the support of the
account, as appropriate, the views of the international community, engaging social
relevant civil society organizations; partners and, where appropriate, relevant
(e) conducting employment impact civil society and community-based
assessments of national recovery organizations;
programmes implemented through public (d) safe and decent working conditions,
and private investment in order to promote including the provision of personal
full, productive, freely chosen employment protective equipment and medical
and decent work for all women and men, assistance for all workers, including those
in particular for young persons and engaged in rescue and rehabilitation
persons with disabilities; activities; and
(f) providing guidance and support to (e) the re-establishment, whenever
employers to enable them to take effective necessary, of government institutions and
measures to identify, prevent, mitigate and of employers’ and workers’ organizations,
account for how they address the risks of as well as of relevant civil society
adverse impacts on human and labour organizations.
rights in their operations, or in products,
services or operations to which they may IV. Employment and income-generation
be directly linked; opportunities
(g) applying a gender perspective in all crisis 10. In enabling recovery and building
prevention and response design, resilience, Members should adopt and
implementation, monitoring and evaluation implement a comprehensive and sustainable
activities; employment strategy to promote full,
productive, freely chosen employment and
(h) creating economic, social and legal
decent work for women and men, taking into
frameworks at the national level to
account the Employment Policy Convention,
encourage lasting and sustainable peace
1964 (No. 122), and guidance provided in
and development, while respecting rights
relevant resolutions of the International Labour
at work;
Conference.
(i) promoting social dialogue and collective
11. Members should, in consultation with the
bargaining;
most representative employers’ and workers’
(j) building or restoring labour market
organizations, adopt inclusive measures in
institutions, including employment
order to promote full, productive, freely chosen
services, for stabilization and recovery;
employment and decent work and income-
(k) developing the capacity of governments, generation opportunities through, as
including regional and local authorities, and appropriate:
144

--- Page 151 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
(a) employment-intensive investment but not limited to, persons with disabilities,
strategies and programmes, including internally displaced persons, migrants and
public employment programmes; refugees, as appropriate and in accordance
(b) local economic recovery and development with national laws and regulations.
initiatives, with a special focus on 13. In responding to crisis situations,
livelihoods in both rural and urban areas; Members should seek to provide income-
(c) the creation or restoration of an enabling generation opportunities, stable employment
environment for sustainable enterprises, and decent work for young women and men,
including the promotion of small and including through:
medium-sized enterprises as well as of (a) integrated training, employment and
cooperatives and other social economy labour market programmes that address
initiatives, with particular emphasis on the specific situations of young persons
initiatives to facilitate access to finance; entering the world of work; and
(d) supporting sustainable enterprises to (b) specific youth employment components in
ensure business continuity in order to disarmament, demobilization and
maintain and expand the level of reintegration programmes that incorporate
employment and enable the creation of psychosocial counselling and other
new jobs and income-generation interventions to address anti-social
opportunities; behaviour and violence, with a view to
(e) facilitating a just transition towards an reintegration into civilian life.
environmentally sustainable economy as a 14. In the event of a crisis resulting in large
means for sustainable economic growth numbers of internally displaced persons,
and social progress, and for creating new Members should:
jobs and income-generation opportunities; (a) support the livelihoods, training and
(f) supporting social protection and employment of internally displaced
employment and respecting, promoting persons, with a view to promoting their
and realizing the fundamental principles socio-economic and labour market
and rights at work of those in the informal integration;
economy and encouraging the transition of (b) build resilience and strengthen the
workers and economic units in the informal capacity of host communities to promote
economy to the formal economy, taking decent employment opportunities for all,
into account the Transition from the with a view to ensuring that the
Informal to the Formal Economy livelihoods and employment of local
Recommendation, 2015 (No. 204); populations are maintained and their
(g) supporting the public sector and promoting ability to host internally displaced
socially, economically and persons is strengthened; and
environmentally responsible public– (c) facilitate the voluntary return of internally
private partnerships and other displaced persons to their places of origin
mechanisms for skills and capacity and their reintegration into labour markets
development and employment generation; when the situation allows it.
(h) creating incentives for multinational
V. Rights, equality and
enterprises to cooperate with national
non-discrimination
enterprises in order to create productive,
freely chosen employment and decent 15. In responding to discrimination arising
work and to undertake human rights due from or exacerbated by conflicts or disasters
diligence with a view to ensuring respect and when taking measures for promoting
for human and labour rights, taking into peace, preventing crises, enabling recovery
account the Tripartite Declaration of and building resilience, Members should:
Principles concerning Multinational (a) respect, promote and realize equality of
Enterprises and Social Policy; and opportunity and treatment for women and
(i) facilitating the employment of persons men without discrimination of any kind,
formerly associated with armed forces and taking into account the Equal Remuneration
groups, as appropriate. Convention (No. 100) and
Recommendation (No. 90), 1951, and the
12. Members should develop and apply
Discrimination (Employment and
active labour market policies and programmes
Occupation) Convention (No. 111) and
with a particular focus on disadvantaged and
Recommendation (No. 111), 1958;
marginalized groups and population groups
and individuals who have been made (b) pay special attention to single-headed
particularly vulnerable by a crisis, including, households, in particular when they are
145

--- Page 152 ---
Building social protection systems
headed by children, women, persons with of national populations, taking into account
disabilities or elderly persons; relevant national provisions, as well as
(c) take measures to ensure that women who relevant international labour standards
have been employed during a crisis and and other international instruments and
have assumed expanded responsibilities documents, as applicable.
are not replaced against their will when the 16. In combating child labour arising from or
male workforce returns; exacerbated by conflicts or disasters,
(d) take measures to ensure that women are Members should:
empowered to effectively and (a) take all necessary measures to prevent,
meaningfully participate in decision- identify and eliminate child labour in crisis
making processes in the context of responses, taking into account the
recovery and building resilience, and that Minimum Age Convention (No. 138) and
their needs and interests are prioritized in Recommendation (No. 146), 1973;
strategies and responses, and that the (b) take urgent action to prevent, identify and
human rights of women and girls are eliminate the worst forms of child labour,
promoted and protected; including the trafficking of children and the
(e) prevent and punish all forms of gender- recruitment of children for use in armed
based violence, including rape, sexual conflict, taking into account the Worst
exploitation and harassment, and protect Forms of Child Labour Convention
and support victims; (No. 182) and Recommendation (No. 190),
(f) pay particular attention to establishing or 1999;
restoring conditions of stability and socio- (c) provide rehabilitation, social integration
economic development for population and training programmes for children and
groups that have been particularly affected young persons formerly associated with
by a crisis, including, but not limited to, armed forces and groups to help them
persons belonging to minorities, indigenous readjust to civilian life; and
and tribal peoples, internally displaced (d) ensure the provision of social protection
persons, persons with disabilities, migrants services to protect children, for instance
and refugees, taking into account the through cash or in-kind transfers.
Discrimination (Employment and
17. In combating forced or compulsory
Occupation) Convention (No. 111) and
labour arising from or exacerbated by conflicts
Recommendation (No. 111), 1958, as well
or disasters, Members should take urgent
as other relevant international labour
action to prevent, identify and eliminate all
standards and other international
forms of forced or compulsory labour, including
instruments and documents, as applicable;
trafficking in persons for purposes of forced or
(g) ensure that persons belonging to compulsory labour, taking into account the
minorities concerned, and indigenous and Forced Labour Convention, 1930 (No. 29) and
tribal peoples are consulted, in particular its Protocol of 2014, the Abolition of Forced
through their representative institutions, Labour Convention, 1957 (No. 105), and the
where they exist, and participate directly in Forced Labour (Supplementary Measures)
the decision-making process, especially if Recommendation, 2014 (No. 203).
the territories inhabited or used by
indigenous and tribal peoples and their VI. Education, vocational training
environment are affected by a crisis and and guidance
related recovery and stability measures; 18. In preventing and responding to crisis
(h) ensure, in consultation with employers’ situations, and on the basis of the principle of
and workers’ organizations, that persons equal opportunity and treatment for women
with disabilities, including those who and men, girls and boys, Members should
acquired a disability as a result of conflict ensure that:
or disaster, are provided with opportunities (a) the provision of education is not disrupted,
for rehabilitation, education, specialized or is restored as quickly as possible, and
vocational guidance, training and that children, including those who are
retraining, and employment, taking into internally displaced, migrants or refugees,
account relevant international labour have access to free, quality, public
standards and other international education, including with the support of
instruments and documents; and international aid, in accordance with
(i) ensure that the human rights of all relevant international law and without
migrants and members of their families discrimination of any kind at all stages of
staying in a country affected by a crisis are crisis and recovery; and
respected on a basis of equality with those
146

--- Page 153 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
(b) second chance programmes for children (c) seek to ensure effective access to
and young persons are available and essential health care and other basic
address key needs arising from any social services, in particular for population
interruption of their education and training. groups and individuals who have been
19. In preventing and responding to crisis made particularly vulnerable by the crisis.
situations, Members should, where 22. In order to prevent crises, enable
appropriate: recovery and build resilience, Members
(a) formulate or adapt a national education, should establish, re-establish or maintain
training, retraining and vocational social protection floors, as well as seek to
guidance programme that assesses and close the gaps in their coverage, taking into
responds to emerging skills needs for account the Social Security (Minimum
recovery and reconstruction, in Standards) Convention, 1952 (No. 102), the
consultation with education and training Social Protection Floors Recommendation,
institutions and employers’ and workers’ 2012 (No. 202), and other relevant
organizations, engaging fully all relevant international labour standards.
public and private stakeholders;
VIII. Labour law, labour administration
(b) adapt curricula and train teachers and and labour market information
instructors to promote:
23. In recovering from crisis situations,
(i) peaceful coexistence and reconciliation Members should, in consultation with the most
for peacebuilding and resilience; and representative employers’ and workers’
(ii) disaster risk education, reduction, organizations:
awareness and management for (a) review, establish, re-establish or reinforce
recovery, reconstruction and resilience; labour legislation, if necessary, including
(c) coordinate education, training and provisions on labour protection and
retraining services at national, regional occupational safety and health at work,
and local levels, including higher consistent with the ILO Declaration on
education, apprenticeship, vocational Fundamental Principles and Rights at
training and entrepreneurship training, and Work and its Follow-up (1998) and
enable women and men whose education applicable international labour standards;
and training have been prevented or (b) ensure that labour laws support the
interrupted to enter or resume and generation of productive, freely chosen
complete their education and training; employment and decent work opportunities;
(d) extend and adapt training and retraining (c) establish, re-establish or reinforce, as
programmes to meet the needs of all necessary, the system of labour
persons whose employment has been administration, including labour inspection
interrupted; and and other competent institutions, taking
(e) give special attention to the training and into account the Labour Inspection
economic empowerment of affected Convention, 1947 (No. 81), as well as the
populations, including in rural areas and in system of collective bargaining and
the informal economy. collective agreements, taking into account
20. Members should ensure that women and the Right to Organise and Collective
girls have access, on the basis of equal Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98);
opportunity and treatment, to all education and (d) establish, restore or enhance, as
training programmes developed for recovery necessary, systems for the collection and
and resilience. analysis of labour market information,
focusing in particular on population groups
VII. Social protection
most affected by the crisis;
21. In responding to crisis situations,
(e) establish or restore and strengthen public
Members should, as quickly as possible:
employment services, including
(a) seek to ensure basic income security, in emergency employment services;
particular for persons whose jobs or
(f) ensure the regulation of private
livelihoods have been disrupted by the
employment agencies, taking into account
crisis;
the Private Employment Agencies
(b) develop, restore or enhance comprehen- Convention, 1997 (No. 181); and
sive social security schemes and other so-
(g) promote synergies among all labour
cial protection mechanisms, taking into ac-
market actors to enable local populations
count national legislation and international
to obtain the maximum benefit from
agreements; and
employment opportunities generated by
147

--- Page 154 ---
Building social protection systems
investments related to the promotion of (c) protect and seek to ensure labour rights
peace and recovery. and a safe environment for migrant
workers, including those in precarious
IX. Social dialogue and role of employers’
employment, women migrant workers,
and workers’ organizations
youth migrant workers and migrant
24. In responding to crisis situations, workers with disabilities, in all sectors;
Members should, in consultation with the most
(d) give due consideration to migrant workers
representative employers’ and workers’
and their families in shaping labour
organizations:
policies and programmes dealing with
(a) ensure that all measures provided for in responses to conflicts and disasters, as
this Recommendation are developed or appropriate; and
promoted through gender-inclusive social
(e) facilitate the voluntary return of migrants
dialogue, taking into account the Tripartite
and their families in conditions of safety
Consultation (International Labour
and dignity.
Standards) Convention, 1976 (No. 144);
27. Consistent with the guidance provided in
(b) create an enabling environment for the es-
Parts V, VIII and IX, Members should promote
tablishment, restoration or strengthening
equality of opportunity and treatment for all
of employers’ and workers’ organizations;
migrant workers with regard to fundamental
and
principles and rights at work, and coverage
(c) encourage, where appropriate, close co- under relevant national labour laws and
operation with civil society organizations. regulations, and in particular:
25. Members should recognize the vital role (a) educate migrants about their labour rights
of employers’ and workers’ organizations in and protections, including by providing
crisis response, taking into account the information on the rights and obligations of
Freedom of Association and Protection of the workers and the means of redress for
Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87), violations, in a language they understand;
and the Right to Organise and Collective
(b) enable the participation of migrants in
Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98), and in
representative organizations of employers
particular:
and workers;
(a) assist sustainable enterprises, particularly
(c) adopt measures and facilitate campaigns
small and medium-sized enterprises, to
that combat discrimination and
undertake business continuity planning to
xenophobia in the workplace and highlight
recover from crises by means of training,
the positive contributions of migrants, with
advice and material support, and facilitate
the active engagement of employers’ and
access to finance;
workers’ organizations and of civil society;
(b) assist workers, in particular those who and
have been made vulnerable by the crisis,
(d) consult and engage employers’ and
to recover from the crisis through training,
workers’ organizations and, as
advice and material support; and
appropriate, other relevant civil society
(c) take measures for these purposes through organizations, with respect to employment
the collective bargaining process as well of migrants.
as by other methods of social dialogue.
XI. Refugees and returnees
X. Migrants affected by
REFUGEE ACCESS TO LABOUR
crisis situations
MARKETS
26. Taking into account that special attention
28. Any measures taken under this Part, in
should be given to migrants, especially migrant
the event of refugee influx, are contingent on:
workers, who have been made particularly
(a) national and regional circumstances, taking
vulnerable by crisis, Members should take
measures, in accordance with national law and into account applicable international law,
applicable international law, to: fundamental principles and rights at work
and national legislation; and
(a) eliminate forced or compulsory labour,
including trafficking in persons; (b) Members’ challenges and constraints in
terms of their resources and capacity to
(b) promote, as appropriate, the inclusion of
respond effectively, taking into account
migrants in host societies, through access
needs as well as priorities expressed by
to labour markets, including
the most representative organizations of
entrepreneurship and income-generation
employers and workers.
opportunities, and through decent work;
29. Members should acknowledge the vital
importance of equitable burden- and
148

--- Page 155 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
responsibility-sharing. They should reinforce (c) facilitate the recognition, certification,
international cooperation and solidarity so as accreditation and use of skills and
to provide predictable, sustainable and qualifications of refugees through
adequate humanitarian and development appropriate mechanisms, and provide
assistance to support the least developed and access to tailored training and retraining
developing countries hosting large numbers of opportunities, including intensive
refugees, including in terms of addressing the language training;
implications for their labour markets and (d) enhance the capacity of public
ensuring their continued development. employment services and improve
30. Members should take measures, as cooperation with other providers of
appropriate, to: services, including private employment
(a) foster self-reliance by expanding agencies, to support the access of
opportunities for refugees to access refugees to the labour market;
livelihood opportunities and labour (e) make specific efforts to support the
markets, without discriminating among inclusion in labour markets of refugee
refugees and in a manner which also women, young persons and others who
supports host communities; and are in a situation of vulnerability; and
(b) formulate national policy and national (f) facilitate, as appropriate, the portability of
action plans, involving competent work-related and social security benefit
authorities responsible for employment entitlements, including pensions, in
and labour and in consultation with accordance with the national provisions of
employers’ and workers’ organizations, to the host country.
ensure the protection of refugees in the 34. Consistent with the guidance provided in
labour market, including with regard to Parts V, VIII and IX, Members should promote
access to decent work and livelihood equality of opportunity and treatment for
opportunities. refugees with regard to fundamental principles
31. Members should collect reliable and rights at work and coverage under
information to assess the impact of refugees relevant labour laws and regulations, and in
on labour markets and the needs of the particular:
existing labour force and of employers, in order (a) educate refugees about their labour rights
to optimize the use of skills and human capital and protections, including by providing
that refugees represent. information on the rights and obligations of
32. Members should build the resilience and workers and the means of redress for
strengthen the capacity of host communities violations, in a language they understand;
by investing in local economies and promoting (b) enable the participation of refugees in
full, productive, freely chosen employment and representative organizations of employers
decent work, and skills development of the and workers; and
local population.
(c) adopt appropriate measures, including
33. Consistent with the guidance provided in legislative measures and campaigns, that
Parts IV, VI and VII, Members should include combat discrimination and xenophobia in
refugees in the actions taken with respect to the workplace and highlight the positive
employment, training and labour market contributions of refugees, with the active
access, as appropriate, and in particular: engagement of employers’ and workers’
(a) promote their access to technical and organizations and of civil society.
vocational training, in particular through 35. Members should consult and engage
ILO and relevant stakeholder employers’ and workers’ organizations and
programmes, in order to enhance their other relevant stakeholders with respect to the
skills and enable them to undergo further access of refugees to labour markets.
retraining, taking into account possible
36. Members should support host countries
voluntary repatriation;
to strengthen their capacity and build
(b) promote their access to formal job resilience, including through development
opportunities, income-generation assistance, by investing in local communities.
schemes and entrepreneurship, by
providing vocational training and VOLUNTARY REPATRIATION AND
guidance, job placement assistance, and REINTEGRATION OF RETURNEES
access to work permits, as appropriate, 37. When the security situation in the country
thereby preventing informalization of of origin of refugees has improved sufficiently,
labour markets in host communities; Members should collaborate to facilitate the
voluntary repatriation of refugees in conditions
149

--- Page 156 ---
Building social protection systems
of safety and dignity, and to support their XIII. International cooperation
labour market reintegration, including with the 42. In preparing for and responding to crisis
assistance of international organizations. situations, Members should strengthen
38. Members should collaborate with the ILO cooperation and take appropriate steps
and relevant stakeholders to develop specific through bilateral or multilateral arrangements,
programmes for returnees to facilitate their including through the United Nations system,
vocational training and reintegration in the international financial institutions and other
labour market. regional or international mechanisms of
39. Members should collaborate, including coordinated response. Members should make
with the assistance of relevant international full use of existing arrangements and
organizations, to support the socio-economic established institutions and mechanisms and
integration of returnees in their countries of strengthen them, as appropriate.
origin, through measures set out in Parts IV to 43. Crisis responses, including support by
IX, as appropriate, in a manner which supports regional and international organizations,
the economic and social development of local should provide for a central focus on
populations. employment, decent work and sustainable
40. Taking into account the principle of enterprises, and should be consistent with
burden- and responsibility sharing, Members applicable international labour standards.
should support countries of origin to 44. Members should cooperate to promote
strengthen their capacity and build resilience, development assistance and public and
including through development assistance, by private sector investment in crisis response for
investing in local communities in which the creation of decent and productive jobs,
returnees are reintegrated and by promoting business development and self-employment.
full, productive, freely chosen employment and 45. International organizations should
decent work. reinforce their cooperation and the coherence
of their crisis responses within their respective
XII. Prevention, mitigation
mandates, making full use of relevant
and preparedness
international policy frameworks and
41. Members should take measures, in
arrangements.
particular in countries in which there are
46. The ILO should play a leading role in
foreseeable risks of conflict or disaster, to build
assisting Members to provide crisis responses
resilience, in consultation with employers’ and
based on employment and decent work and
workers’ organizations and other
focusing on employment promotion, labour
stakeholders, to prevent, mitigate and prepare
market integration or access, as appropriate,
for crises in ways that support economic and
capacity development and institution building,
social development and decent work, through
in close cooperation with regional and
actions such as:
international institutions.
(a) identification of risks and evaluation of
47. Members should strengthen international
threats to and vulnerabilities of human,
cooperation, including through the voluntary
physical, economic, environmental,
and systematic exchange of information,
institutional and social capital at local,
knowledge, good practices and technology for
national and regional levels;
promoting peace, preventing and mitigating
(b) risk management, including contingency
crises, enabling recovery and building
planning, early warning, risk reduction and
resilience.
emergency response preparedness; and
48. There should be close coordination of and
(c) prevention and mitigation of adverse
complementarity among crisis responses, as
effects, including through business
appropriate, in particular between humanitarian
continuity management in both the public
and development assistance, for the promotion
and the private sector, taking into account
of full, productive, freely chosen employment
the Tripartite Declaration of Principles
and decent work for peace and resilience.
concerning Multinational Enterprises and
Social Policy and the ILO Declaration on XIV. Final provision
Fundamental Principles and Rights at 49. This Recommendation supersedes the
Work and its Follow-up (1998). Employment (Transition from War to Peace)
Recommendation, 1944 (No. 71).
150

--- Page 157 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
ILO Constitution, Declarations and Resolutions
ILO Constitution, 1919
Preamble MEMBERSHIP
Whereas universal and lasting peace can be 2. The Members of the International Labour
established only if it is based upon social Organization shall be the States which were
justice; Members of the Organization on 1 November
And whereas conditions of labour exist involving 1945 and such other States as may become
such injustice hardship and privation to large Members in pursuance of the provisions of
numbers of people as to produce unrest so paragraphs 3 and 4 of this article.
great that the peace and harmony of the world 3. Any original member of the United Nations
are imperilled; and an improvement of those and any State admitted to membership of the
conditions is urgently required; as, for example, united nations by a decision of the general
by the regulation of the hours of work including assembly in accordance with the provisions of
the establishment of a maximum working day the charter may become a member of the
and week, the regulation of the labour supply, International Labour Organization by
the prevention of unemployment, the provision communicating to the director-general of the
of an adequate living wage, the protection of the international labour office its formal acceptance
worker against sickness, disease and injury of the obligations of the constitution of the
arising out of his employment the protection of International Labour Organization.
children, young persons and women, provision
4. The General Conference of the
for old age and injury, protection of the interests
International Labour Organization may also
of workers when employed in countries other
admit Members to the Organization by a vote
than their own, recognition of the principle of
concurred in by two-thirds of the delegates
equal remuneration for work of equal value,
attending the session, including two-thirds of the
recognition of the principle of freedom of
Government delegates present and voting.
association, the organization of vocational and
Such admission shall take effect on the
technical education and other measures;
communication to the Director-General of the
Whereas also the failure of any nation to adopt International Labour Office by the government
humane conditions of labour is an obstacle in of the new Member of its formal acceptance of
the way of other nations which desire to the obligations of the Constitution of the
improve the conditions in their own countries; Organization.
The High Contracting Parties, moved by
WITHDRAWAL
sentiments of justice and humanity as well as
by the desire to secure the permanent peace 5. No Member of the International Labour
of the world, and with a view to attaining the Organization may withdraw from the
objectives set forth in this Preamble, agree to Organization without giving notice of its
the following Constitution of the International intention so to do to the Director-General of the
Labour Organization: International Labour Office. Such notice shall
take effect two years after the date of its
Chapter I – Organization reception by the Director-General, subject to
the Member having at that time fulfilled all
Article 1
financial obligations arising out of its
ESTABLISHMENT membership. When a Member has ratified any
1. A permanent organization is hereby international labour Convention, such
established for the promotion of the objects set withdrawal shall not affect the continued
forth in the Preamble to this Constitution and validity for the period provided for in the
in the Declaration concerning the aims and Convention of all obligations arising
purposes of the International Labour thereunder or relating thereto.
Organization adopted at Philadelphia on 10
May 1944 the text of which is annexed to this READMISSION
Constitution. 6. In the event of any State having ceased to
be a Member of the Organization, its
readmission to membership shall be governed
151

--- Page 158 ---
Building social protection systems
by the provisions of paragraph 3 or representative of employers or workpeople, as
paragraph 4 of this article as the case may be. the case may be, in their respective countries.
Article 2 STATUS OF ADVISERS
ORGANS 6. Advisers shall not speak except on a
The permanent organization shall consist of: request made by the delegate whom they
accompany and by the special authorization of
(a) a General Conference of representatives
the President of the Conference, and may not
of the Members;
vote.
(b) a Governing Body composed as described
7. A delegate may by notice in writing
in article 7; and
addressed to the President appoint one of his
(c) an International Labour Office controlled advisers to act as his deputy, and the adviser
by the Governing Body. while so acting, shall be allowed to speak and
vote.
Article 3
Conference CREDENTIALS
MEETINGS AND DELEGATES 8. The names of the delegates and their
advisers will be communicated to the
1. The meetings of the General Conference
International Labour Office by the government
of representatives of the Members shall be
of each of the Members.
held from time to time as occasion may
require, and at least once in every year. It shall 9. The credentials of delegates and their
be composed of four representatives of each advisers shall be subject to scrutiny by the
of the Members, of whom two shall be Conference, which may, by two-thirds of the
Government delegates and the two others votes cast by the delegates present, refuse to
shall be delegates representing respectively admit any delegate or adviser whom it deems
the employers and the workpeople of each of not to have been nominated in accordance
the Members. with this article.
ADVISERS Article 4
Voting rights
2. Each delegate may be accompanied by
advisers, who shall not exceed two in number 1. Every delegate shall be entitled to vote
for each item on the agenda of the meeting. individually on all matters which are taken into
When questions specially affecting women are consideration by the Conference.
to be considered by the Conference, one at 2. If one of the Members fails to nominate
least of the advisers should be a woman. one of the non-Government delegates whom it
is entitled to nominate, the other non-
ADVISERS FROM NON-METROPOLITAN Government delegate shall be allowed to sit
TERRITORIES and speak at the Conference, but not to vote.
3. Each Member which is responsible for the 3. If in accordance with article 3 the
international relations of non-metropolitan Conference refuses admission to a delegate of
territories may appoint as additional advisers one of the Members, the provisions of the
to each of its delegates present article shall apply as if that delegate
(a) persons nominated by it as had not been nominated.
representatives of any such territory in
regard to matters within the self-governing Article 5
powers of that territory; and Place of meetings of the Conference
(b) persons nominated by it to advise its The meetings of the Conference shall, subject
delegates in regard to matters concerning to any decisions which may have been taken
non-self-governing territories. by the Conference itself at a previous meeting
be held at such place as may be decided by
4. In the case of a territory under the joint
the Governing Body.
authority of two or more Members, persons
may be nominated to advise the delegates of Article 6
such Members. Seat of the International Labour Office
NOMINATION OF NON-GOVERNMENTAL Any change in the seat of the International
REPRESENTATIVES Labour Office shall be decided by the
Conference by a two-thirds majority of the
5. The Members undertake to nominate non-
votes cast by the delegates present.
Government delegates and advisers chosen in
agreement with the industrial organizations, if
such organizations exist, which are most
152

--- Page 159 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Article 7 OFFICERS
Governing Body 7. The Governing Body shall, from time to
COMPOSITION time, elect from its number a chairman and two
1. The Governing Body shall consist of fifty- vice-chairmen, of whom one shall be a person
six persons representing a government, one a person
representing the employers, and one a person
Twenty-eight representing governments,
representing the workers.
Fourteen representing the employers, and
Fourteen representing the workers. PROCEDURE
8. The Governing Body shall regulate its own
GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVES procedure and shall fix its own times of
2. Of the twenty-eight persons representing meeting. A special meeting shall be held if a
governments, ten shall be appointed by the written request to that effect is made by at least
Members of chief industrial importance, and sixteen of the representatives on the
eighteen shall be appointed by the Members Governing Body.
selected for that purpose by the Government
delegates to the Conference, excluding the Article 8
delegates of the ten Members mentioned Director-General
above. 1. There shall be a Director-General of the
International Labour Office, who shall be
STATES OF CHIEF INDUSTRIAL appointed by the Governing Body, and,
IMPORTANCE subject to the instructions of the Governing
3. The Governing Body shall as occasion Body, shall be responsible for the efficient
requires determine which are the Members of conduct of the International Labour Office and
the Organization of chief industrial importance for such other duties as may be assigned to
and shall make rules to ensure that all him.
questions relating to the selection of the 2. The Director-General or his deputy shall
Members of chief industrial importance are attend all meetings of the Governing Body.
considered by an impartial committee before
being decided by the Governing Body. Any Article 9
appeal made by a Member from the Staff
declaration of the Governing Body as to which APPOINTMENT
are the Members of chief industrial importance
1. The staff of the International Labour Office
shall be decided by the Conference, but an
shall be appointed by the Director-General
appeal to the Conference shall not suspend
under regulations approved by the Governing
the application of the declaration until such
Body.
time as the Conference decides the appeal.
2. So far as is possible with due regard to the
EMPLOYERS’ AND WORKERS’ efficiency of the work of the Office, the
REPRESENTATIVES Director-General shall select persons of
4. The persons representing the employers different nationalities.
and the persons representing the workers shall 3. A certain number of these persons shall be
be elected respectively by the Employers’ women.
delegates and the Workers’ delegates to the
INTERNATIONAL CHARACTER
Conference.
OF RESPONSIBILITIES
TERM OF OFFICE 4. The responsibilities of the Director-
5. The period of office of the Governing Body General and the staff shall be exclusively
shall be three years. If for any reason the international in character. In the performance
Governing Body elections do not take place on of their duties, the Director-General and the
the expiry of this period, the Governing Body staff shall not seek or receive instructions from
shall remain in office until such elections are any government or from any other authority
held. external to the Organization. They shall refrain
from any action which might reflect on their
VACANCIES, SUBSTITUTES, ETC.
position as international officials responsible
6. The method of filling vacancies and of only to the Organization.
appointing substitutes and other similar
5. Each Member of the Organization
questions may be decided by the Governing
undertakes to respect the exclusively
Body subject to the approval of the
international character of the responsibilities of
Conference.
the Director-General and the staff and not to
153

--- Page 160 ---
Building social protection systems
seek to influence them in the discharge of their of public international organizations having
responsibilities. specialized responsibilities and with public
international organizations having specialized
Article 10
responsibilities in related fields.
Functions of the Office
2. The International Labour Organization
1. The functions of the International Labour
may make appropriate arrangements for the
Office shall include the collection and
representatives of public international
distribution of information on all subjects
organizations to participate without vote in its
relating to the international adjustment of
deliberations.
conditions of industrial life and labour, and
3. The International Labour Organization
particularly the examination of subjects which
may make suitable arrangements for such
it is proposed to bring before the Conference
consultation as it may think desirable with rec-
with a view to the conclusion of international
ognized non-governmental international or-
Conventions, and the conduct of such special
ganizations, including international organiza-
investigations as may be ordered by the
tions of employers, workers, agriculturists and
Conference or by the Governing Body.
co-operators.
2. Subject to such directions as the
Governing Body may give, the Article 13
(a) prepare the documents on the various Financial and budgetary
items of the agenda for the meetings of the arrangements
Conference; 1. The International Labour Organization
(b) accord to governments at their request all may make such financial and budgetary
appropriate assistance within its power in arrangements with the United Nations as may
connection with the framing of laws and appear appropriate.
regulations on the basis of the decisions of 2. Pending the conclusion of such
the Conference and the improvement of arrangements or if at any time no such
administrative practices and systems of arrangements are in force:
inspection; (a) each of the Members will pay the travelling
(c) carry out the duties required of it by the and subsistence expenses of its delegates
provisions of this Constitution in and their advisers and of its
connection with the effective observance representatives attending the meetings of
of Conventions; the Conference or the Governing Body, as
(d) edit and issue, in such languages as the the case may be;
Governing Body may think desirable, (b) all other expenses of the International
publications dealing with problems of Labour Office and of the meetings of the
industry and employment of international Conference or Governing Body shall be
interest. paid by the Director-General of the
3. Generally, it shall have such other powers International Labour Office out of the
and duties as may be assigned to it by the general funds of the International Labour
Conference or by the Governing Body. Organization;
(c) the arrangements for the approval,
Article 11
allocation and collection of the budget of the
Relations with governments
International Labour Organization shall be
The government departments of any of the determined by the Conference by a two-
Members which deal with questions of industry thirds majority of the votes cast by the
and employment may communicate directly delegates present, and shall provide for the
with the Director-General through the approval of the budget and of the
representative of their government on the arrangements for the allocation of expenses
Governing Body of the International Labour among the Members of the Organization by
Office or, failing any such representative, a committee of Government
through such other qualified official as the representatives.
government may nominate for the purpose.
3. The expenses of the International Labour
Article 12 Organization shall be borne by the Members in
Relations with international accordance with the arrangements in force in
organizations virtue of paragraph 1 or paragraph 2 (c) of this
article.
1. The International Labour Organization shall
co-operate within the terms of this Constitution
with any general international organization
entrusted with the co-ordination of the activities
154

--- Page 161 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
ARREARS IN PAYMENT Conference. The Governing Body shall make
OF CONTRIBUTIONS rules for the application of this provision.
4. A Member of the Organization which is in
Article 16
arrears in the payment of its financial
Objections to agenda
contribution to the Organization shall have no
1. Any of the governments of the Members
vote in the Conference, in the Governing Body,
may formally object to the inclusion of any item
in any committee, or in the elections of
or items in the agenda. The grounds for such
members of the Governing Body, if the amount
objection shall be set forth in a statement
of its arrears equals or exceeds the amount of
addressed to the Director-General who shall
the contributions due from it for the preceding
circulate it to all the Members of the
two full years: Provided that the Conference
Organization.
may by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast
by the delegates present permit such a 2. Items to which such objection has been
Member to vote if it is satisfied that the failure made shall not, however be excluded from the
to pay is due to conditions beyond the control agenda, if at the Conference a majority of two-
of the Member. thirds of the votes cast by the delegates
present is in favour of considering them.
FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Of DIRECTOR-GENERAL INCLUSION OF NEW ITEMS
BY CONFERENCE
5. The Director-General of the International
Labour Office shall be responsible to the 3. If the Conference decides (otherwise than
Governing Body for the proper expenditure of under the preceding paragraph) by two-thirds
the funds of the International Labour of the votes cast by the delegates present that
Organization. any subject shall be considered by the
Conference, that subject shall be included in
Chapter II – Procedure the agenda for the following meeting.
Article 14 Article 17
AGENDA FOR CONFERENCE Officers of Conference, procedure
1. The agenda for all meetings of the and committees
Conference will be settled by the Governing 1. The Conference shall elect a president
Body, which shall consider any suggestion as and three vice-presidents. One of the vice-
to the agenda that may be made by the presidents shall be a Government delegate,
government of any of the Members or by any one an Employers’ delegate and one a
representative organization recognized for the Workers’ delegate. The Conference shall
purpose of article 3, or by any public regulate its own procedure and may appoint
international organization. committees to consider and report on any
matter.
PREPARATION FOR CONFERENCE
2. The Governing Body shall make rules to VOTING
ensure thorough technical preparation and 2. Except as otherwise expressly provided in
adequate consultation of the Members this Constitution or by the terms of any
primarily concerned, by means of a Convention or other instrument conferring
preparatory conference or otherwise, prior to powers on the Conference or of the financial
the adoption of a Convention or and budgetary arrangements adopted in virtue
Recommendation by the Conference. of article 13, all matters shall be decided by a
simple majority of the votes cast by the
Article 15 delegates present.
Transmission of agenda
and reports for Conference QUORUM
1. The Director-General shall act as the 3. The voting is void unless the total number
Secretary-General of the Conference, and of votes cast is equal to half the number of the
shall transmit the agenda so as to reach the delegates attending the Conference.
Members four months before the meeting of
Article 18
the Conference, and, through them, the non-
Technical experts
Government delegates when appointed.
The Conference may add to any committees
GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVES which it appoints technical experts without
2. The reports on each item of the agenda power to vote.
shall be despatched so as to reach the
Members in time to permit adequate
consideration before the meeting of the
155

--- Page 162 ---
Building social protection systems
Article 19 authorities within whose competence the
Conventions and Recommendations matter lies, for the enactment of legislation
DECISIONS OF THE CONFERENCE or other action;
1. When the Conference has decided on the (c) Members shall inform the Director-
adoption of proposals with regard to an item on General of the International Labour Office
the agenda, it will rest with the Conference to of the measures taken in accordance with
determine whether these proposals should take this article to bring the Convention before
the form: (a) of an international Convention, or the said competent authority or authorities,
(b) of a Recommendation to meet with particulars of the authority or
circumstances where the subject, or aspect of it, authorities regarded as competent, and of
dealt with is not considered suitable or the action taken by them;
appropriate at that time for a Convention. (d) if the Member obtains the consent of the
authority or authorities within whose
VOTE REQUIRED competence the matter lies, it will
2. In either case a majority of two-thirds of communicate the formal ratification of the
the votes cast by the delegates present shall Convention to the Director-General and
be necessary on the final vote for the adoption will take such action as may be necessary
of the Convention or Recommendation, as the to make effective the provisions of such
case may be, by the Conference. Convention;
(e) if the Member does not obtain the consent
MODIFICATIONS FOR SPECIAL
of the authority or authorities within whose
LOCAL CONDITIONS
competence the matter lies, no further
3. In framing any Convention or
obligation shall rest upon the Member
Recommendation of general application the
except that it shall report to the Director-
Conference shall have due regard to those
General of the International Labour Office,
countries in which climatic conditions, the
at appropriate intervals as requested by
imperfect development of industrial
the Governing Body, the position of its law
organization, or other special circumstances
and practice in regard to the matters dealt
make the industrial conditions substantially
with in the Convention, showing the extent
different and shall suggest the modifications, if
to which effect has been given, or is
any, which it considers may be required to meet
proposed to be given, to any of the
the case of such countries.
provisions of the Convention by
AUTHENTIC TEXTS legislation, administrative action, collective
agreement or otherwise and stating the
4. Two copies of the Convention or
difficulties which prevent or delay the
Recommendation shall be authenticated by
ratification of such Convention.
the signatures of the President of the
Conference and of the Director-General. Of OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS
these copies one shall be deposited in the IN RESPECT OF RECOMMENDATIONS
archives of the International Labour Office and
6. In the case of a Recommendation-
the other with the Secretary-General of the
(a) the Recommendation will be communicated
United Nations. The Director-General will
to all Members for their consideration with a
communicate a certified copy of the
view to effect being given to it by national
Convention or Recommendation to each of the
legislation or otherwise;
Members.
(b) each of the Members undertakes that it
OBLIGATIONS OF MEMBERS will, within a period of one year at most
IN RESPECT OF CONVENTIONS from the closing of the session of the
5. In the case of a Convention Conference or if it is impossible owing to
(a) the Convention will be communicated to all exceptional circumstances to do so within
Members for ratification; the period of one year, then at the earliest
practicable moment and in no case later
(b) each of the Members undertakes that it
than 18 months after the closing of the
will, within the period of one year at most
Conference, bring the Recommendation
from the closing of the session of the
before the authority or authorities within
Conference, or if it is impossible owing to
whose competence the matter lies for the
exceptional circumstances to do so within
enactment of legislation or other action;
the period of one year, then at the earliest
practicable moment and in no case later (c) the Members shall inform the Director-
than 18 months from the closing of the General of the International Labour Office
session of the Conference, bring the of the measures taken in accordance with
Convention before the authority or this article to bring the Recommendation
156

--- Page 163 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
before the said competent authority or of such Conventions and Recommen-
authorities with particulars of the authority dations;
or authorities regarded as competent, and (iii) inform the Director-General of the
of the action taken by them; International Labour Office of the
(d) apart from bringing the Recommendation measures taken in accordance with
before the said competent authority or this article to bring such Conventions
authorities, no further obligation shall rest and Recommendations before the
upon the Members, except that they shall appropriate federal state, provincial or
report to the Director-General of the cantonal authorities with particulars of
International Labour Office, at appropriate the authorities regarded as
intervals as requested by the Governing appropriate and of the action taken by
Body, the position of the law and practice them;
in their country in regard to the matters (iv) in respect of each such Convention
dealt with in the Recommendation, which it has not ratified report to the
showing the extent to which effect has Director-General of the International
been given or is proposed to be given, to Labour Office at appropriate intervals
the provisions of the Recommendation as requested by the Governing Body,
and such modifications of these provisions the position of the law and practice of
as it has been found or may be found the federation and its constituent
necessary to make in adopting or applying states, provinces or cantons in regard
them. to the Convention, showing the extent
to which effect has been given, or is
OBLIGATIONS OF FEDERAL STATES
proposed to be given, to any of the
7. In the case of a federal State, the following
provisions of the Convention by
provisions shall apply:
legislation, administrative action,
(a) in respect of Conventions and collective agreement, or otherwise;
Recommendations which the federal
(v) in respect of each such Recommen-
government regards as appropriate under
dation, report to the Director-General of
its constitutional system for federal action,
the International Labour Office, at
the obligations of the federal State shall be
appropriate intervals as requested by
the same as those of Members which are
the Governing Body, the position of the
not federal States;
aw and practice of the federation and its
(b) in respect of Conventions and constituent states provinces or cantons
Recommendations which the federal in regard to the Recommendation,
government regards as appropriate under showing the extent to which effect has
its constitutional system in whole or in part, been given, or is proposed to be given
for action by the constituent states to the provisions of the
provinces, or cantons rather than for Recommendation and such
federal action, the federal government modifications of these provisions as
shall: have been found or may be found
(i) make, in accordance with its necessary in adopting or applying
Constitution and the Constitutions of them.
the states, provinces or cantons
EFFECT OF CONVENTIONS AND
concerned, effective arrangements for
RECOMMENDATIONS ON MORE
the reference of such Conventions
FAVOURABLE EXISTING PROVISIONS
and Recommendations not later than
18 months from the closing of the 8. In no case shall the adoption of any
session of the Conference to the Convention or Recommendation by the
appropriate federal, state provincial or Conference, or the ratification of any
cantonal authorities for the enactment Convention by any Member, be deemed to
of legislation or other action; affect any law, award, custom or agreement
which ensures more favourable conditions to
(ii) arrange, subject to the concurrence of
the workers concerned than those provided for
the state, provincial or cantonal
in the Convention or Recommendation.
governments concerned, for periodical
consultations between the federal and ABROGATION OF OBSOLETE
the state, provincial or cantonal CONVENTIONS
authorities with a view to promoting
9. Acting on a proposal of the Governing
within the federal State co-ordinated
Body, the Conference may, by a majority of
action to give effect to the provisions
two-thirds of the votes cast by the delegates
present, abrogate any Convention adopted in
157

--- Page 164 ---
Building social protection systems
accordance with the provisions of this article if Article 24
it appears that the Convention has lost its Representations of non-observance
purpose or that it no longer makes a useful of Conventions
contribution to attaining the objectives of the In the event of any representation being made
Organisation. to the International Labour Office by an
industrial association of employers or of
Article 20
workers that any of the Members has failed to
Registration with the United Nations
secure in any respect the effective observance
1. Any Convention so ratified shall be
within its jurisdiction of any Convention to
communicated by the Director-General of the
which it is a party, the Governing Body may
International Labour Office to the Secretary-
communicate this representation to the
General of the United Nations for registration in
government against which it is made, and may
accordance with the provisions of article 102 of
invite that government to make such statement
the Charter of the United Nations but shall only
on the subject as it may think fit.
be binding upon the Members which ratify it.
Article 25
Article 21
Publication of representation
Conventions not adopted by the
If no statement is received within a reasonable
Conference
time from the government in question, or if the
1. If any Convention coming before the
statement when received is not deemed to be
Conference for final consideration fails to
satisfactory by the Governing Body, the latter
secure the support of two-thirds of the votes
shall have the right to publish the
cast by the delegates present, it shall
representation and the statement, if any, made
nevertheless be within the right of any of the
in reply to it.
Members of the Organization to agree to such
Convention among themselves. Article 26
2. Any Convention so agreed to shall be Complaints of non-observance
communicated by the governments concerned 1. Any of the Members shall have the right to
to the Director-General of the International file a complaint with the International Labour
Labour Office and to the Secretary-General of Office if it is not satisfied that any other
the United Nations for registration in Member is securing the effective observance
accordance with the provisions of article 102 of any Convention which both have ratified in
of the Charter of the United Nations. accordance with the foregoing articles.
2. The Governing Body may, if it thinks fit,
Article 22
before referring such a complaint to a
Annual reports on ratified Conventions
Commission of Inquiry, as hereinafter provided
Each of the Members agrees to make an
for, communicate with the government in
annual report to the International Labour Office
question in the manner described in article 24.
on the measures which it has taken to give
3. If the Governing Body does not think it
effect to the provisions of Conventions to
necessary to communicate the complaint to
which it is a party. These reports shall be made
the government in question, or if, when it has
in such form and shall contain such particulars
made such communication, no statement in
as the Governing Body may request.
reply has been received within a reasonable
Article 23 time which the Governing Body considers to
Examination and communication of be satisfactory, the Governing Body may
reports appoint a Commission of Inquiry to consider
1. The Director-General shall lay before the the complaint and to report thereon.
next meeting of the Conference a summary of 4. The Governing Body may adopt the same
the information and reports communicated to procedure either of its own motion or on receipt
him by Members in pursuance of articles 19 of a complaint from a delegate to the
and 22. Conference.
2. Each Member shall communicate to the 5. When any matter arising out of article 25
representative organizations recognized for or 26 is being considered by the Governing
the purpose of article 3 copies of the Body, the government in question shall if not
information and reports communicated to the already represented thereon, be entitled to
Director-General in pursuance of articles 19 send a representative to take part in the
and 22. proceedings of the Governing Body while the
matter is under consideration. Adequate notice
of the date on which the matter will be
158

--- Page 165 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
considered shall be given to the government in Article 32
question. 1. The International Court of Justice may
affirm, vary or reverse any of the findings or
Article 27
recommendations of the Commission of
Co-operation with Commission of Inquiry
Inquiry, if any.
1. The Members agree that, in the event of
the reference of a complaint to a Commission Article 33
of Inquiry under article 26, they will each, FAILURE TO CARRY OUT
whether directly concerned in the complaint or RECOMMENDATIONS OF COMMISSION
not, place at the disposal of the Commission OF INQUIRY OR ICJ
all the information in their possession which
1. In the event of any Member failing to carry
bears upon the subject-matter of the
out within the time specified the
complaint.
recommendations, if any, contained in the
Article 28 report of the Commission of Inquiry, or in the
Report of Commission of Inquiry decision of the International Court of Justice, as
1. When the Commission of Inquiry has fully the case may be, the Governing Body may
recommend to the Conference such action as it
considered the complaint it shall prepare a
report embodying its findings on all questions may deem wise and expedient to secure
of fact relevant to determining the issue compliance therewith.
between the parties and containing such Article 34
recommendations as it may think proper as to
COMPLIANCE WITH RECOMMENDATIONS
the steps which should be taken to meet the
OF COMMISSION OF INQUIRY OR ICJ
complaint and the time within which they
should be taken. 1. The defaulting government may at any
time inform the Governing Body that it has
Article 29 taken the steps necessary to comply with the
Action on report of Commission of Inquiry recommendations of the Commission of
1. The Director-General of the International Inquiry or with those in the decision of the
Labour Office shall communicate the report of International Court of Justice, as the case may
the Commission of Inquiry to the Governing be and may request it to constitute a
Body and to each of the governments Commission of Inquiry to verify its contention.
concerned in the complaint, and shall cause it In this case the provisions of articles 27, 28,
to be published. 29, 31 and 32 shall apply, and if the report of
2. Each of these governments shall within the Commission of Inquiry or the decision of
three months inform the Director-General of the International Court of Justice is in favour of
the International Labour Office whether or not the defaulting government, the Governing
it accepts the recommendations contained in Body shall forthwith recommend the
the report of the Commission; and if not, discontinuance of any action taken in
whether it proposes to refer the complaint to pursuance of article 33.
the International Court of Justice.
Chapter III – GENERAL
Article 30
Article 35
Failure to submit Conventions or
Application of Conventions
Recommendations to competent
to non-metropolitan territories
authorities
1. The Members undertake that Conventions
1. In the event of any Member failing to take
which they have ratified in accordance with the
the action required by paragraphs 5 (b), 6 (b)
provisions of this Constitution shall be applied
or 7 (b) (i) of article 19 with regard to a
to the non-metropolitan territories for whose
Convention or Recommendation, any other
international relations they are responsible,
Member shall be entitled to refer the matter to
including any trust territories for which they are
the Governing Body. In the event of the
the administering authority, except where the
Governing Body finding that there has been
subject-matter of the Convention is within the
such a failure, it shall report the matter to the
self-governing powers of the territory or the
Conference.
Convention is inapplicable owing to the local
Article 31 conditions or subject to such modifications as
Decisions of International Court of Justice may be necessary to adapt the Convention to
local conditions.
1. The decision of the International Court of
Justice in regard to a complaint or matter 2. Each Member which ratifies a Convention
which has been referred to it in pursuance of shall as soon as possible after ratification
article 29 shall be final. communicate to the Director-General of the
159

--- Page 166 ---
Building social protection systems
International Labour Office a declaration terminating the acceptance of the obligations
stating in respect of the territories other than of the Convention on behalf of the territory
those referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 below concerned.
the extent to which it undertakes that the 8. If the obligations of a Convention are not
provisions of the Convention shall be applied accepted on behalf of a territory to which
and giving such particulars as may be paragraph 4 or paragraph 5 of this article
prescribed by the Convention. relates, the Member or Members or
3. Each Member which has communicated a international authority concerned shall report
declaration in virtue of the preceding to the Director-General of the International
paragraph may from time to time, in Labour Office the position of the law and
accordance with the terms of the Convention, practice of that territory in regard to the matters
communicate a further declaration modifying dealt with in the Convention and the report
the terms of any former declaration and stating shall show the extent to which effect has been
the present position in respect of such given, or is proposed to be given, to any of the
territories. provisions of the Convention by legislation,
4. Where the subject-matter of the administrative action, collective agreement or
Convention is within the self-governing powers otherwise and shall state the difficulties which
of any non-metropolitan territory the Member prevent or delay the acceptance of such
responsible for the international relations of Convention.
that territory shall bring the Convention to the
Article 36
notice of the government of the territory as
Amendments to Constitution
soon as possible with a view to the enactment
1. Amendments to this Constitution which
of legislation or other action by such
are adopted by the Conference by a majority
government. Thereafter the Member, in
of two-thirds of the votes cast by the delegates
agreement with the government of the territory,
present shall take effect when ratified or
may communicate to the Director-General of
accepted by two-thirds of the Members of the
the International Labour Office a declaration
Organization including five of the ten Members
accepting the obligations of the Convention on
which are represented on the Governing Body
behalf of such territory.
as Members of chief industrial importance in
5. A declaration accepting the obligations of
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3
any Convention may be communicated to the
of article 7 of this Constitution.
Director-General of the International Labour
Office: Article 37
(a) by two or more Members of the Interpretation of Constitution
Organization in respect of any territory and Conventions
which is under their joint authority; or 1. Any question or dispute relating to the
(b) by any international authority responsible interpretation of this Constitution or of any
for the administration of any territory, in subsequent Convention concluded by the
virtue of the Charter of the United Nations Members in pursuance of the provisions of this
or otherwise, in respect of any such Constitution shall be referred for decision to
territory. the International Court of Justice.
6. Acceptance of the obligations of a 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of
Convention in virtue of paragraph 4 or paragraph 1 of this article the Governing Body
paragraph 5 shall involve the acceptance on may make and submit to the Conference for
behalf of the territory concerned of the approval rules providing for the appointment of
obligations stipulated by the terms of the a tribunal for the expeditious determination of
Convention and the obligations under the any dispute or question relating to the
Constitution of the Organization which apply to interpretation of a Convention which may be
ratified Conventions. A declaration of referred thereto by the Governing Body or in
acceptance may specify such modification of accordance with the terms of the Convention.
the provisions of the Conventions as may be Any applicable judgement or advisory opinion
necessary to adapt the Convention to local of the International Court of Justice shall be
conditions. binding upon any tribunal established in virtue
of this paragraph. Any award made by such a
7. Each Member or international authority
tribunal shall be circulated to the Members of
which has communicated a declaration in
the Organization and any observations which
virtue of paragraph 4 or paragraph 5 of this
they may make thereon shall be brought
article may from time to time, in accordance
before the Conference.
with the terms of the Convention,
communicate a further declaration modifying
the terms of any former declaration or
160

--- Page 167 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Article 38 (b) to acquire and dispose of immovable and
Regional Conferences movable property;
1. The International Labour Organization (c) to institute legal proceedings.
may convene such regional conferences and
Article 40
establish such regional agencies as may be
Privileges and immunities
desirable to promote the aims and purposes of
the Organization. 1. The International Labour Organization
shall enjoy in the territory of each of its
2. The powers, functions and procedure of
Members such privileges and immunities as
regional conferences shall be governed by
are necessary for the fulfilment of its purposes.
rules drawn up by the Governing Body and
submitted to the General Conference for 2. Delegates to the Conference, members of
confirmation. the Governing Body and the Director-General
and officials of the Office shall likewise enjoy
Chapter IV – Miscellaneous provisions such privileges and immunities as are
Article 39 necessary for the independent exercise of their
Legal status of Organization functions in connection with the Organization.
The International Labour Organization shall 3. Such privileges and immunities shall be
possess full juridical personality and in defined in a separate agreement to be
particular the capacity: prepared by the Organization with a view to its
(a) to contract; acceptance by the States Members.
Annex: Declaration of Philadelphia
Declaration concerning the aims and purposes of the International
Labour Organisation (Declaration of Philadelphia), 1944
The General Conference of the International
II
Labour Organization meeting in its Twenty-
Believing that experience has fully
sixth Session in Philadelphia, hereby adopts
demonstrated the truth of the statement in the
this tenth day of May in the year nineteen
Constitution of the International Labour
hundred and forty-four the present Declaration
Organization that lasting peace can be
of the aims and purposes of the International
established only if it is based on social justice,
Labour Organization and of the principles
the Conference affirms that-
which should inspire the policy of its Members.
(a) all human beings, irrespective of race,
I creed or sex, have the right to pursue both
The Conference reaffirms the fundamental their material well-being and their spiritual
principles on which the Organization is based development in conditions of freedom and
and, in particular, that- dignity, of economic security and equal
(a) labour is not a commodity; opportunity;
(b) freedom of expression and of association (b) the attainment of the conditions in which
are essential to sustained progress; this shall be possible must constitute the
central aim of national and international
(c) poverty anywhere constitutes a danger to
policy;
prosperity everywhere;
(c) all national and international policies and
(d) the war against want requires to be carried
measures, in particular those of an
on with unrelenting vigor within each
economic and financial character, should
nation, and by continuous and concerted
be judged in this light and accepted only in
international effort in which the
so far as they may be held to promote and
representatives of workers and employers,
not to hinder the achievement of this
enjoying equal status with those of
fundamental objective;
governments, join with them in free
discussion and democratic decision with a (d) it is a responsibility of the International
view to the promotion of the common Labour Organization to examine and
welfare. consider all international economic and
financial policies and measures in the light
of this fundamental objective;
161

--- Page 168 ---
Building social protection systems
(e) in discharging the tasks entrusted to it the (j) the assurance of equality of educational
International Labour Organization, having and vocational opportunity.
considered all relevant economic and
IV
financial factors, may include in its
decisions and recommendations any Confident that the fuller and broader utilization
provisions which it considers appropriate. of the world’s productive resources necessary
for the achievement of the objectives set forth
III in this Declaration can be secured by effective
The Conference recognizes the solemn international and national action, including
obligation of the International Labour measures to expand production and
Organization to further among the nations of consumption, to avoid severe economic
the world programmes which will achieve: fluctuations to promote the economic and
(a) full employment and the raising of social advancement of the less developed
standards of living; regions of the world, to assure greater stability
in world prices of primary products, and to
(b) the employment of workers in the
promote a high and steady volume of
occupations in which they can have the
international trade, the Conference pledges
satisfaction of giving the fullest measure of
the full cooperation of the International Labour
their skill and attainments and make their
Organization with such international bodies as
greatest contribution to the common well-
may be entrusted with a share of the
being;
responsibility for this great task and for the
(c) the provision, as a means to the
promotion of the health, education and well-
attainment of this end and under adequate
being of all peoples.
guarantees for all concerned, of facilities
for training and the transfer of labour, V
including migration for employment and The conference affirms that the principles set
settlement; forth in this Declaration are fully applicable to
(d) policies in regard to wages and earnings, all peoples everywhere and that, while the
hours and other conditions of work manner of their application must be
calculated to ensure a just share of the determined with due regard to the stage of
fruits of progress to all, and a minimum social and economic development reached by
living wage to all employed and in need of each people, their progressive application to
such protection; peoples who are still dependent, as well as to
(e) the effective recognition of the right of those who have already achieved self-
collective bargaining, the cooperation of government, is a matter of concern to the
management and labour in the continuous whole civilized world.
improvement of productive efficiency, and
Amendments to the Constitution
the collaboration of workers and
The original text of the Constitution, established
employers in the preparation and
in 1919, has been modified by the amendment
application of social and economic
of 1922 which entered into force on 4 June
measures;
1934; the Instrument of Amendment of 1945
(f) the extension of social security measures
which entered into force on 26 September 1946;
to provide a basic income to all in need of
the Instrument of Amendment of 1946 which
such protection and comprehensive
entered into force on 20 April 1948; the
medical care;
Instrument of Amendment of 1953 which
(g) adequate protection for the life and health entered into force on 20 May 1954; the
of workers in all occupations; Instrument of Amendment of 1962 which
(h) provision for child welfare and maternity entered into force on 22 May 1963; and the
protection; Instrument of Amendment of 1972 which
(i) the provision of adequate nutrition, entered into force on 1 November 1974.
housing and facilities for recreation and
culture;
162

--- Page 169 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and its
Follow-up, 1998
Adopted by the International Labour THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR
Conference at its Eighty-sixth Session, Geneva, CONFERENCE
18 June 1998 (Annex revised 15 June 2010) 1. Recalls:
Whereas the ILO was founded in the (a) that in freely joining the ILO, all Members
conviction that social justice is essential to have endorsed the principles and rights
universal and lasting peace; set out in its Constitution and in the
Whereas economic growth is essential but not Declaration of Philadelphia, and have
sufficient to ensure equity, social progress and undertaken to work towards attaining the
the eradication of poverty, confirming the need overall objectives of the Organization to
for the ILO to promote strong social policies, the best of their resources and fully in line
justice and democratic institutions; with their specific circumstances;
Whereas the ILO should, now more than ever, (b) that these principles and rights have been
draw upon all its standard-setting, technical expressed and developed in the form of
cooperation and research resources in all its specific rights and obligations in
areas of competence, in particular Conventions recognized as fundamental
employment, vocational training and working both inside and outside the Organization.
conditions, to ensure that, in the context of a 2. Declares that all Members, even if they
global strategy for economic and social have not ratified the Conventions in question,
development, economic and social policies are have an obligation arising from the very fact of
mutually reinforcing components in order to membership in the Organization to respect, to
create broad-based sustainable development; promote and to realize, in good faith and in
Whereas the ILO should give special attention accordance with the Constitution, the
to the problems of persons with special social principles concerning the fundamental rights
needs, particularly the unemployed and which are the subject of those Conventions,
migrant workers, and mobilize and encourage namely:
international, regional and national efforts (a) freedom of association and the effective
aimed at resolving their problems, and recognition of the right to collective
promote effective policies aimed at job bargaining;
creation;
(b) the elimination of all forms of forced or
Whereas, in seeking to maintain the link compulsory labour;
between social progress and economic
(c) the effective abolition of child labour; and
growth, the guarantee of fundamental
(d) the elimination of discrimination in respect
principles and rights at work is of particular
of employment and occupation.
significance in that it enables the persons
concerned, to claim freely and on the basis of 3. Recognizes the obligation on the
equality of opportunity, their fair share of the Organization to assist its Members, in
wealth which they have helped to generate, response to their established and expressed
and to achieve fully their human potential; needs, in order to attain these objectives by
making full use of its constitutional, operational
Whereas the ILO is the constitutionally
and budgetary resources, including, by the
mandated international organization and the
mobilization of external resources and
competent body to set and deal with
support, as well as by encouraging other
international labour standards, and enjoys
international organizations with which the ILO
universal support and acknowledgement in
has established relations, pursuant to article
promoting Fundamental Rights at Work as the
12 of its Constitution, to support these efforts:
expression of its constitutional principles;
(a) by offering technical cooperation and
Whereas it is urgent, in a situation of growing
advisory services to promote the
economic interdependence, to reaffirm the
ratification and implementation of the
immutable nature of the fundamental
fundamental Conventions;
principles and rights embodied in the
Constitution of the Organization and to (b) by assisting those Members not yet in a
promote their universal application; position to ratify some or all of these
Conventions in their efforts to respect, to
promote and to realize the principles
163

--- Page 170 ---
Building social protection systems
concerning fundamental rights which are II. ANNUAL FOLLOW-UP CONCERNING
the subject of these Conventions; and NON-RATIFIED FUNDAMENTAL
(c) by helping the Members in their CONVENTIONS
efforts to create a climate for economic and A. Purpose and scope
social development. 1. The purpose is to provide an opportunity
4. Decides that, to give full effect to this to review each year, by means of simplified
Declaration, a promotional follow-up, which is procedures, the efforts made in accordance
meaningful and effective, shall be with the Declaration by Members which have
implemented in accordance with the measures not yet ratified all the fundamental
specified in the annex hereto, which shall be Conventions.
considered as an integral part of this 2. The follow-up will cover the four categories
Declaration. of fundamental principles and rights specified
5. Stresses that labour standards should not in the Declaration.
be used for protectionist trade purposes, and
B. Modalities
that nothing in this Declaration and its follow-
up shall be invoked or otherwise used for such 1. The follow-up will be based on reports
purposes; in addition, the comparative requested from Members under article 19,
advantage of any country should in no way be paragraph 5(e), of the Constitution. The report
called into question by this Declaration and its forms will be drawn up so as to obtain
follow-up. information from governments which have not
ratified one or more of the fundamental
Annex (Revised) Conventions, on any changes which may have
Follow-up to the Declaration taken place in their law and practice, taking
due account of article 23 of the Constitution
I. OVERALL PURPOSE and established practice.
1. The aim of the follow-up described below 2. These reports, as compiled by the Office,
is to encourage the efforts made by the will be reviewed by the Governing Body.
Members of the Organization to promote the
3. Adjustments to the Governing Body’s
fundamental principles and rights enshrined in
existing procedures should be examined to
the Constitution of the ILO and the Declaration
allow Members which are not represented on
of Philadelphia and reaffirmed in this
the Governing Body to provide, in the most
Declaration.
appropriate way, clarifications which might
2. In line with this objective, which is of a prove necessary or useful during Governing
strictly promotional nature, this follow up will Body discussions to supplement the
allow the identification of areas in which the information contained in their reports.
assistance of the Organization through its
technical cooperation activities may prove III. GLOBAL REPORT ON FUNDAMENTAL
useful to its Members to help them implement PRINCIPLES AND RIGHTS AT WORK
these fundamental principles and rights. It is A. Purpose and scope
not a substitute for the established supervisory 1. The purpose of the Global Report is to
mechanisms, nor shall it impede their provide a dynamic global picture relating to the
functioning; consequently, specific situations four categories of fundamental principles and
within the purview of those mechanisms shall rights at work noted during the preceding
not be examined or re-examined within the period, and to serve as a basis for assessing
framework of this follow-up. the effectiveness of the assistance provided by
3. The two aspects of this follow-up, the Organization, and for determining priorities
described below, are based on existing for the following period, including in the form of
procedures: the annual follow-up concerning action plans for technical cooperation
non-ratified fundamental Conventions will designed in particular to mobilize the internal
entail merely some adaptation of the present and external resources necessary to carry
modalities of application of article 19, them out.
paragraph 5(e), of the Constitution; and the B. Modalities
Global Report on the effect given to the 1. The report will be drawn up under the
promotion of the fundamental principles and responsibility of the Director-General on the
rights at work that will serve to inform the basis of official information, or information
recurrent discussion at the Conference on the gathered and assessed in accordance with
needs of the Members, the ILO action established procedures. In the case of States
undertaken, and the results achieved in the which have not ratified the fundamental
promotion of the fundamental principles and Conventions, it will be based in particular on
rights at work. the findings of the aforementioned annual
164

--- Page 171 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
follow-up. In the case of Members which have action, including the priorities and plans of
ratified the Conventions concerned, the report action for technical cooperation to be
will be based in particular on reports as dealt implemented for the following period, and to
with pursuant to article 22 of the Constitution. guide the Governing Body and the Office in
It will also refer to the experience gained from their responsibilities.
technical cooperation and other relevant
IV. IT IS UNDERSTOOD THAT:
activities of the ILO.
The Conference shall, in due course, review
2. This report will be submitted to the
the operation of this follow-up in the light of the
Conference for a recurrent discussion on the
experience acquired to assess whether it has
strategic objective of fundamental principles
adequately fulfilled the overall purpose
and rights at work based on the modalities
articulated in Part I.
agreed by the Governing Body. It will then be
for the Conference to draw conclusions from
this discussion on all available ILO means of
ILO Declaration on Social Justice for a Fair Globalization, 2008
The International Labour Conference, meeting Convinced that the International Labour
in Geneva on the occasion of its Ninety- Organization has a key role to play in helping
seventh Session, to promote and achieve progress and social
Considering that the present context of justice in a constantly changing environment:
globalization, characterized by the diffusion of – based on the mandate contained in the
new technologies, the flow of ideas, the ILO Constitution, including the Declaration
exchange of goods and services, the increase of Philadelphia (1944), which continues to
in capital and financial flows, the internationali- be fully relevant in the twenty-first century
zation of business and business processes and should inspire the policy of its
and dialogue as well as the movement of Members and which, among other aims,
persons, especially working women and men, purposes and principles:
is reshaping the world of work in profound  affirms that labour is not a commodity
ways: and that poverty anywhere constitutes
– on the one hand, the process of economic a danger to prosperity everywhere;
cooperation and integration has helped a
 recognizes that the ILO has the
number of countries to benefit from high solemn obligation to further among the
rates of economic growth and employment
nations of the world programmes
creation, to absorb many of the rural poor
which will achieve the objectives of full
into the modern urban economy, to employment and the raising of
advance their developmental goals, and to
standards of living, a minimum living
foster innovation in product development
wage and the extension of social
and the circulation of ideas; security measures to provide a basic
– on the other hand, global economic inte- income to all in need, along with all the
gration has caused many countries and other objectives set out in the
sectors to face major challenges of income Declaration of Philadelphia;
inequality, continuing high levels of unem-
 provides the ILO with the responsibility
ployment and poverty, vulnerability of
to examine and consider all
economies to external shocks, and the
international economic and financial
growth of both unprotected work and the
policies in the light of the fundamental
informal economy, which impact on the
objective of social justice; and
employment relationship and the protec-
– drawing on and reaffirming the ILO
tions it can offer;
Declaration on Fundamental Principles
Recognizing that achieving an improved and
and Rights at Work and its Follow-up
fair outcome for all has become even more
(1998) in which Members recognized, in
necessary in these circumstances to meet the
the discharge of the Organization’s
universal aspiration for social justice, to reach
mandate, the particular significance of the
full employment, to ensure the sustainability of
fundamental rights, namely: freedom of
open societies and the global economy, to
association and the effective recognition of
achieve social cohesion and to combat poverty
the right to collective bargaining, the
and rising inequalities;
elimination of all forms of forced or
165

--- Page 172 ---
Building social protection systems
compulsory labour, the effective abolition – ensure coherence and collaboration in its
of child labour, and the elimination of approach to advancing its development of
discrimination in respect of employment a global and integrated approach, in line
and occupation; with the Decent Work Agenda and the four
Encouraged by the international community’s strategic objectives of the ILO, drawing
recognition of Decent Work as an effective upon the synergies among them;
response to the challenges of globalization, – adapt its institutional practices and
having regard to: governance to improve effectiveness and
– the outcomes of the 1995 World Summit efficiency while fully respecting the
for Social Development in Copenhagen; existing constitutional framework and
procedures;
– the wide support, repeatedly expressed at
global and regional levels, for the decent – assist constituents to meet the needs they
work concept developed by the ILO; and have expressed at country level based on
full tripartite discussion, through the
– the endorsement by Heads of State and
provision of high-quality information,
Government at the 2005 World Summit of
advice and technical programmes that
the United Nations of fair globalization and
help them meet those needs in the context
the goals of full and productive
of the ILO’s constitutional objectives; and
employment and decent work for all, as
central objectives of their relevant national – promote the ILO’s standard-setting policy
and international policies; as a cornerstone of ILO activities by
enhancing its relevance to the world of
Convinced that in a world of growing inter-
work, and ensure the role of standards as
dependence and complexity and the interna-
a useful means of achieving the
tionalization of production:
constitutional objectives of the
– the fundamental values of freedom,
Organization;
human dignity, social justice, security and
Therefore adopts this tenth day of June of the
non-discrimination are essential for
year two thousand and eight the present
sustainable economic and social
Declaration.
development and efficiency;
– social dialogue and the practice of I. SCOPE AND PRINCIPLES
tripartism between governments and the The Conference recognizes and declares that:
representative organizations of workers
A. In the context of accelerating change, the
and employers within and across borders
commitments and efforts of Members and the
are now more relevant to achieving
Organization to implement the ILO’s
solutions and to building up social
constitutional mandate, including through
cohesion and the rule of law through,
international labour standards, and to place full
among other means, international labour
and productive employment and decent work
standards; the importance of the
at the centre of economic and social policies,
employment relationship should be
should be based on the four equally important
recognized as a means of providing legal
strategic objectives of the ILO, through which
protection to workers;
the Decent Work Agenda is expressed and
– productive, profitable and sustainable which can be summarized as follows:
enterprises, together with a strong social
(i) promoting employment by creating a
economy and a viable public sector, are
sustainable institutional and economic
critical to sustainable economic development
environment in which:
and employment opportunities; and
– individuals can develop and update
– the Tripartite Declaration of Principles
the necessary capacities and skills
concerning Multinational Enterprises and
they need to enable them to be
Social Policy (1977), as revised, which
productively occupied for their
addresses the growing role of such actors
personal fulfilment and the common
in the realization of the Organization’s
well-being;
objectives, has particular relevance; and
– all enterprises, public or private, are
Recognizing that the present challenges call
sustainable to enable growth and the
for the Organization to intensify its efforts and
generation of greater employment and
to mobilize all its means of action to promote
income opportunities and prospects
its constitutional objectives, and that, to make
for all; and
these efforts effective and strengthen the ILO’s
– societies can achieve their goals of
capacity to assist its Members’ efforts to reach
economic development, good living
the ILO’s objectives in the context of
standards and social progress;
globalization, the Organization must:
166

--- Page 173 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
(ii) developing and enhancing measures of – that the violation of fundamental
social protection – social security and principles and rights at work cannot be
labour protection – which are sustainable invoked or otherwise used as a
and adapted to national circumstances, legitimate comparative advantage and
including: that labour standards should not be
– the extension of social security to all, used for protectionist trade purposes.
including measures to provide basic B. The four strategic objectives are
income to all in need of such protection, inseparable, interrelated and mutually
and adapting its scope and coverage to supportive. The failure to promote any one of
meet the new needs and uncertainties them would harm progress towards the others.
generated by the rapidity of To optimize their impact, efforts to promote
technological, societal, demographic them should be part of an ILO global and
and economic changes; integrated strategy for decent work. Gender
– healthy and safe working conditions; equality and non-discrimination must be
and considered to be cross-cutting issues in the
abovementioned strategic objectives.
– policies in regard to wages and
earnings, hours and other conditions C. How Members achieve the strategic
of work, designed to ensure a just objectives is a question that must be
share of the fruits of progress to all and determined by each Member subject to its
a minimum living wage to all employed existing international obligations and the
and in need of such protection;*1 {* fundamental principles and rights at work with
Ed. note: In drafting this text, priority due regard, among others, to:
was given in each language to (i) the national conditions and circumstances,
concordance with the corresponding and needs as well as priorities expressed
official version of article III(d) of the by representative organizations of
Declaration of Philadelphia adopted employers and workers;
by the International Labour (ii) the interdependence, solidarity and
Conference in 1944}. cooperation among all Members of the ILO
(iii) promoting social dialogue and tripartism that are more pertinent than ever in the
as the most appropriate methods for: context of a global economy; and
– adapting the implementation of the (iii) the principles and provisions of international
strategic objectives to the needs and labour standards.
circumstances of each country;
II. METHOD OF IMPLEMENTATION
– translating economic development
The Conference further recognizes that, in a
into social progress, and social
globalized economy:
progress into economic development;
A. The implementation of Part I of this
– facilitating consensus building on
Declaration requires that the ILO effectively
relevant national and international
assist its Members in their efforts. To that end,
policies that impact on employment
the Organization should review and adapt its
and decent work strategies and
institutional practices to enhance governance
programmes; and
and capacity building in order to make the best
– making labour law and institutions
use of its human and financial resources and
effective, including in respect of the
of the unique advantage of its tripartite
recognition of the employment
structure and standards system, with a view to:
relationship, the promotion of good
(i) better understanding its Members’ needs,
industrial relations and the building of
with respect to each of the strategic
effective labour inspection systems;
objectives, as well as past ILO action to
and
meet them in the framework of a recurring
(iv) respecting, promoting and realizing the
item on the agenda of the Conference, so
fundamental principles and rights at work,
as to:
which are of particular significance, as
– determine how the ILO can more
both rights and enabling conditions that
efficiently address these needs
are necessary for the full realization of all
through coordinated use of all its
of the strategic objectives, noting:
means of action;
– that freedom of association and the
– determine the necessary resources to
effective recognition of the right to
address these needs and, if
collective bargaining are particularly
appropriate, to attract additional
important to enable the attainment of
resources; and
the four strategic objectives; and
167

--- Page 174 ---
Building social protection systems
– guide the Governing Body and the To that end, they may consider, among other
Office in their responsibilities; steps:
(ii) strengthening and streamlining its (i) the adoption of a national or regional
technical cooperation and expert advice in strategy for decent work, or both, targeting
order to: a set of priorities for the integrated pursuit
– support and assist efforts by individual of the strategic objectives;
Members to make progress on a (ii) the establishment of appropriate indicators
tripartite basis towards all the strategic or statistics, if necessary with the
objectives, through country assistance of the ILO, to monitor and
programmes for decent work, where evaluate the progress made;
appropriate, and within the framework (iii) the review of their situation as regards the
of the United Nations system; and ratification or implementation of ILO
– help, wherever necessary, the instruments with a view to achieving a
institutional capacity of member progressively increasing coverage of each
States, as well as representative of the strategic objectives, with special
organizations of employers and emphasis on the instruments classified as
workers, to facilitate meaningful and core labour standards as well as those
coherent social policy and sustainable regarded as most significant from the
development; viewpoint of governance covering
(iii) promoting shared knowledge and tripartism, employment policy and labour
understanding of the synergies between inspection;
the strategic objectives through empirical (iv) the taking of appropriate steps for an
analysis and tripartite discussion of adequate coordination between positions
concrete experiences, with the voluntary taken on behalf of the member State
cooperation of countries concerned, and concerned in relevant international forums
with a view to informing Members’ and any steps they may take under the
decision-making in relation to the present Declaration;
opportunities and challenges of (v) the promotion of sustainable enterprises;
globalization;
(vi) where appropriate, sharing national and
(iv) upon request, providing assistance to regional good practice gained from the
Members who wish to promote strategic successful implementation of national or
objectives jointly within the framework of regional initiatives with a decent work
bilateral or multilateral agreements, element; and the provision on a bilateral,
subject to their compatibility with ILO regional or multilateral basis, in so far as
obligations; and their resources permit, of appropriate
(v) developing new partnerships with non- support to other Members’ efforts to give
state entities and economic actors, such effect to the principles and objectives
as multinational enterprises and trade referred to in this Declaration.
unions operating at the global sectoral C. Other international and regional
level in order to enhance the effectiveness organizations with mandates in closely related
of ILO operational programmes and fields can have an important contribution to
activities, enlist their support in any make to the implementation of the integrated
appropriate way, and otherwise promote approach. The ILO should invite them to
the ILO strategic objectives. This will be promote decent work, bearing in mind that
done in consultation with representative each agency will have full control of its
national and international organizations of mandate. As trade and financial market policy
workers and employers. both affect employment, it is the ILO’s role to
B. At the same time, Members have a key evaluate those employment effects to achieve
responsibility to contribute, through their social its aim of placing employment at the heart of
and economic policy, to the realization of a economic policies.
global and integrated strategy for the
III. FINAL PROVISIONS
implementation of the strategic objectives,
which encompass the Decent Work Agenda A. The Director-General of the International
outlined in Part I of this Declaration. Labour Office will ensure that the present
Implementation of the Decent Work Agenda at Declaration is communicated to all Members
national level will depend on national needs and, through them, to representative
and priorities and it will be for member States, organizations of employers and workers, to
in consultation with the representative international organizations with competence in
organizations of workers and employers, to related fields at the international and regional
determine how to discharge that responsibility. levels, and to such other entities as the
168

--- Page 175 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Governing Body may identify. Governments, (iii) efficient and effective resource use,
as well as employers’ and workers’ management processes and institutional
organizations at the national level, shall make structures;
the Declaration known in all relevant forums (iv) adequate competencies and knowledge
where they may participate or be represented, base, and effective governance structures;
or otherwise disseminate it to any other entities
(v) the promotion of effective partnerships
that may be concerned.
within the United Nations and the
B. The Governing Body and the Director- multilateral system to strengthen ILO
General of the International Labour Office will operational programmes and activities or
have the responsibility for establishing otherwise promote ILO objectives; and
appropriate modalities for the expeditious
(vi) the identification, updating and promotion of
implementation of Part II of this Declaration.
the list of standards that are the most
C. At such time(s) as the Governing Body significant from the viewpoint of governance.
may find appropriate, and in accordance with {Note: The Labour Inspection Convention,
modalities to be established, the impact of the 1947 (No. 81), the Employment Policy
present Declaration, and in particular the steps Convention, 1964 (No. 122), the Labour
taken to promote its implementation, will be the Inspection (Agriculture) Convention, 1969
object of a review by the International Labour (No. 129), and the Tripartite Consultation
Conference with a view to assessing what (International Labour Standards)
action might be appropriate. Convention, 1976 (No. 144), and those
standards identified on subsequently
ANNEX
updated lists.}
FOLLOW-UP TO THE DECLARATION
I. Overall purpose and scope Understanding and responding
A. The aim of this follow-up is to address the to Members’ realities and needs
means by which the Organization will assist B. The Organization will introduce a scheme
the efforts of its Members to give effect to their of recurrent discussions by the International
commitment to pursue the four strategic Labour Conference based on modalities
objectives important for implementing the agreed by the Governing Body, without
constitutional mandate of the Organization. duplicating the ILO’s supervisory mechanisms,
B. This follow-up seeks to make the fullest so as to:
possible use of all the means of action (i) understand better the diverse realities and
provided under the Constitution of the ILO to needs of its Members with respect to each
fulfil its mandate. Some of the measures to of the strategic objectives, respond more
assist the Members may entail some effectively to them, using all the means of
adaptation of existing modalities of application action at its disposal, including standards
of article 19, paragraphs 5(e) and 6(d), of the related action, technical cooperation, and
ILO Constitution, without increasing the the technical and research capacity of the
reporting obligations of member States. Office, and adjust its priorities and
programmes of action accordingly; and
II. Action by the Organization to assist
(ii) assess the results of the ILO’s activities
its Members
with a view to informing programme,
Administration, resources and
budget and other governance decisions.
external relations
A. The Director-General will take all Technical assistance and advisory services
necessary steps, including making proposals C. The Organization will provide, upon
to the Governing Body as appropriate, to request of governments and representative
ensure the means by which the Organization organizations of workers and employers, all
will assist the Members in their efforts under appropriate assistance within its mandate to
this Declaration. Such steps will include support Members’ efforts to make progress
reviewing and adapting the ILO’s institutional towards the strategic objectives through an
practices and governance as set out in the integrated and coherent national or regional
Declaration and should take into account the strategy, including by:
need to ensure: (i) strengthening and streamlining its
(i) coherence, coordination and collaboration technical cooperation activities within the
within the International Labour Office for its framework of country programmes for
efficient conduct; decent work and that of the United Nations
(ii) building and maintaining policy and system;
operational capacity; (ii) providing general expertise and
assistance which each Member may
169

--- Page 176 ---
Building social protection systems
request for the purpose of adopting a B. The Office will prepare a report to the
national strategy and exploring innovative Conference for evaluation of the impact of the
partnerships for implementation; Declaration, which will contain information on:
(iii) developing appropriate tools for effectively (i) actions or steps taken as a result of the
evaluating the progress made and present Declaration, which may be
assessing the impact that other factors provided by tripartite constituents through
and policies may have on the Members’ the services of the ILO, notably in the
efforts; and regions, and by any other reliable source;
(iv) addressing the special needs and (ii) steps taken by the Governing Body and
capacities of developing countries and of the Office to follow up on relevant
the representative organizations of governance, capacity and knowledge-
workers and employers, including by based issues relating to the pursuit of the
seeking resource mobilization. strategic objectives, including
programmes and activities of the ILO and
Research, information collection and sharing
their impact; and
D. The Organization will take appropriate
(iii) the possible impact of the Declaration in
steps to strengthen its research capacity,
relation to other interested international
empirical knowledge and understanding of
organizations.
how the strategic objectives interact with each
C. Interested multilateral organizations will
other and contribute to social progress,
be given the opportunity to participate in the
sustainable enterprises, sustainable
evaluation of the impact and in the discussion.
development and the eradication of poverty in
Other interested entities may attend and
the global economy. These steps may include
participate in the discussion at the invitation of
the tripartite sharing of experiences and good
the Governing Body.
practices at the international, regional and
national levels in the framework of: D. In the light of its evaluation, the
Conference will draw conclusions regarding
(i) studies conducted on an ad hoc basis with
the desirability of further evaluations or the
the voluntary cooperation of the
opportunity of engaging in any appropriate
governments and representative
course of action.
organizations of employers and workers in
the countries concerned; or The foregoing is the ILO Declaration on Social
Justice for a Fair Globalization duly adopted by
(ii) any common schemes such as peer
the General Conference of the International
reviews which interested Members may
Labour Organization during its Ninety seventh
wish to establish or join on a voluntary
Session which was held at Geneva and
basis.
declared closed on 13 June 2008.
III. Evaluation by the Conference
IN FAITH WHEREOF we have appended our
A. The impact of the Declaration, in particular
signatures this thirteenth day of June 2008:
the extent to which it has contributed to
The President of the Conference,
promoting, among Members, the aims and
EDWIN SALAMIN JAEN
purposes of the Organization through the
integrated pursuit of the strategic objectives, The Director-General of
will be the subject of evaluation by the the International Labour Office,
Conference, which may be repeated from time JUAN SOMAVIA
to time, within the framework of an item placed
on its agenda.
Recovering from the Crisis: a Global Jobs Pact, 2009
The General Conference of the International Considering the important role that the
Labour Organization, Governing Body and the International Labour
Having heard the Heads of State, Vice- Office have in the implementation of
Presidents, Prime Ministers and all other resolutions adopted by the Conference,
participants in the ILO Summit on the Global Having in mind the Decent Work Agenda and
Jobs Crisis, the Declaration on Social Justice for a Fair
Having received the proposal made by the Globalization as ways of dealing with the social
Conference Committee of the Whole on Crisis dimension of globalization,
Reponses,
170

--- Page 177 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
adopts, this nineteenth day of June of the year progress and economic development and
two thousand and nine, the following involves the following principles:
resolution. (1) devoting priority attention to protecting and
growing employment through sustainable
RECOVERING FROM THE CRISIS:
enterprises, quality public services and
A GLOBAL JOBS PACT
building adequate social protection for all
I. A decent work response to the crisis
as part of ongoing international and
1. The global economic crisis and its aftermath national action to aid recovery and
mean the world faces the prospect of a development. The measures should be
prolonged increase in unemployment, implemented quickly in a coordinated
deepening poverty and inequality. Employment manner;
has usually only recovered several years after
(2) enhancing support to vulnerable women
economic recovery. In some countries, the
and men hit hard by the crisis including
simple recovery of previous employment levels
youth at risk, low-wage, low-skilled,
will not be enough to contribute effectively to
informal economy and migrant workers;
strong economies, and to achieve decent work
(3) focusing on measures to maintain
for women and men.
employment and facilitate transitions from
2. Enterprises and employment are being
one job to another as well as to support
lost. Addressing this situation must be part of
access to the labour market for those
any comprehensive response.
without a job;
3. The world must do better.
(4) establishing or strengthening effective
4. There is a need for coordinated global public employment services and other
policy options in order to strengthen national labour market institutions;
and international efforts centred around jobs,
(5) increasing equal access and opportunities
sustainable enterprises, quality public
for skills development, quality training and
services, protecting people whilst
education to prepare for recovery;
safeguarding rights and promoting voice and
(6) avoiding protectionist solutions as well as
participation.
the damaging consequences of
5. This will contribute to economic
deflationary wage spirals and worsening
revitalization, fair globalization, prosperity and
working conditions;
social justice.
(7) promoting core labour standards and other
6. The world should look different after the
international labour standards that support
crisis.
the economic and jobs recovery and
7. Our response should contribute to a fair reduce gender inequality;
globalization, a greener economy and
(8) engaging in social dialogue, such as
development that more effectively creates jobs
tripartism and collective bargaining
and sustainable enterprises, respects workers’
between employers and workers as
rights, promotes gender equality, protects
constructive processes to maximize the
vulnerable people, assists countries in the
impact of crisis responses to the needs of
provision of quality public services and
the real economy;
enables countries to achieve the Millennium
(9) ensuring that short-term actions are
Development Goals.
coherent with economic, social and
8. Governments and workers’ and
environmental sustainability;
employers’ organizations commit to work
(10) ensuring synergies between the State and
together to contribute to the success of the
the market and effective and efficient
Global Jobs Pact. The International Labour
regulation of market economies including
Organization’s (ILO’s) Decent Work Agenda
a legal and regulatory environment which
forms the framework for this response.
enables enterprise creation, sustainable
II. Principles for promoting recovery enterprises and promotes employment
and development generation across sectors; and
9. Action must be guided by the Decent Work (11) the ILO, engaging with other international
Agenda and commitments made by the ILO agencies, international financial
and its constituents in the 2008 Declaration on institutions and developed countries to
Social Justice for a Fair Globalization. We set strengthen policy coherence and to
out here a framework for the period ahead and deepen development assistance and
a resource of practical policies for the support for least developed, developing
multilateral system, governments, workers and and transition countries with restricted
employers. It ensures linkages between social fiscal and policy space to respond to the
crisis.
171

--- Page 178 ---
Building social protection systems
III. Decent work responses (7) recognizing that cooperatives provide jobs
10. The above principles set the general in our communities from very small
framework within which each country can businesses to large multinationals and
formulate a policy package specific to its tailoring support for them according to their
situation and priorities. They equally should needs;
inform and support action by the multilateral (8) using public employment guarantee
institutions. Set out below are some specific schemes for temporary employment,
policy options. emergency public works programmes and
other direct job creation schemes which
Accelerating employment creation,
are well targeted, and include the informal
jobs recovery and sustaining enterprises
economy;
11. To limit the risk of long-term
(9) implementing a supportive regulatory
unemployment and increased informality
environment conducive to job creation
which are difficult to reverse, we need to
through sustainable enterprise creation
support job creation and help people into work.
and development; and
To achieve this, we agree to put the aim of full
(10) increasing investment in infrastructure,
and productive employment and decent work
research and development, public
at the heart of the crisis responses. These
services and “green” production and
responses may include:
services as important tools for creating
(1) boosting effective demand and helping
jobs and stimulating sustained economic
maintain wage levels including via
activity.
macroeconomic stimulus packages;
Building social protection systems
(2) helping jobseekers by:
and protecting people
(i) implementing effective, properly
12. Sustainable social protection systems to
targeted active labour market policies;
assist the vulnerable can prevent increased
(ii) enhancing the competence and poverty, address social hardship, while also
increasing resources available to helping to stabilize the economy and maintain
public employment services so that and promote employability. In developing
jobseekers receive adequate support countries, social protection systems can also
and, where they are working with alleviate poverty and contribute to national
private employment agencies, economic and social development. In a crisis
ensuring that quality services are situation, short-term measures to assist the
provided and rights respected; and most vulnerable may be appropriate.
(iii) implementing vocational and (1) Countries should give consideration, as
entrepreneurial skills programmes for appropriate, to the following:
paid and self-employment;
(i) introducing cash transfer schemes for the
(3) investing in workers’ skills development, poor to meet their immediate needs and to
skills upgrading and re-skilling to improve alleviate poverty;
employability, in particular for those having
(ii) building adequate social protection for all,
lost or at risk of losing their job and
drawing on a basic social protection floor
vulnerable groups;
including: access to health care, income
(4) limiting or avoiding job losses and security for the elderly and persons with
supporting enterprises in retaining their disabilities, child benefits and income
workforce through well-designed schemes security combined with public employment
implemented through social dialogue and guarantee schemes for the unemployed
collective bargaining. These could include and working poor;
work-sharing and partial unemployment
(iii) extending the duration and coverage of
benefits;
unemployment benefits (hand in hand with
(5) supporting job creation across sectors of relevant measures to create adequate
the economy, recognizing the multiplier work incentives recognizing the current
effect of targeted efforts; realities of national labour markets);
(6) recognizing the contribution of small and (iv) ensuring that the long-term unemployed
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and stay connected to the labour market
micro-enterprises to job creation, and through, for example, skills development
promoting measures, including access to for employability;
affordable credit, that would ensure a
(v) providing minimum benefit guarantees in
favourable environment for their
countries where pension or health funds
development;
may no longer be adequately funded to
ensure workers are adequately protected
172

--- Page 179 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
and considering how to better protect relevant. These include ILO instruments
workers’ savings in future scheme design; concerning employment policy, wages, social
and security, the employment relationship, the
(vi) providing adequate coverage for termination of employment, labour
temporary and non-regular workers. administration and inspection, migrant workers,
labour conditions on public contracts,
(2) All countries should, through a
occupational safety and health, working hours
combination of income support, skills
and social dialogue mechanisms.
development and enforcement of rights to
equality and non-discrimination, help (3) The ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles
vulnerable groups most hard hit by the crisis. concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social
Policy is an important and useful tool for all
(3) In order to avoid deflationary wage
enterprises, including those in supply chains, for
spirals, the following options should be a
responding to the crisis in a socially responsible
guide:
manner.
– social dialogue;
Social dialogue: Bargaining collectively,
– collective bargaining;
identifying priorities, stimulating action
– statutory or negotiated minimum wages.
15. Especially in times of heightened social
Minimum wages should be regularly reviewed tension, strengthened respect for, and use of,
and adapted. Governments as employers and mechanisms of social dialogue, including
procurers should respect and promote collective bargaining, where appropriate at all
negotiated wage rates. Narrowing the gender levels, is vital.
pay gap must be an integrated part of these
16. Social dialogue is an invaluable
efforts.
mechanism for the design of policies to fit
13. Countries that have strong and efficiently national priorities. Furthermore, it is a strong
run social protection systems have a valuable basis for building the commitment of employers
inbuilt mechanism to stabilize their economies and workers to the joint action with governments
and address the social impact of the crisis. needed to overcome the crisis and for a
These countries may need to reinforce existing sustainable recovery. Successfully concluded, it
social protection systems. For other countries, inspires confidence in the results achieved.
the priority is to meet urgent needs, while
17. Strengthening capacities for labour
building the foundation for stronger and more
administration and labour inspection is an
effective systems.
important element in inclusive action on worker
Strengthening respect for international labour protection, social security, labour market
standards policies and social dialogue.
14. International labour standards create a
IV. The way forward: Shaping a fair and
basis for and support rights at work and
sustainable globalization
contribute to building a culture of social
dialogue particularly useful in times of crisis. In 18. The above agenda closely interacts with
order to prevent a downward spiral in labour other dimensions of globalization and requires
conditions and build the recovery, it is policy coherence and international
especially important to recognize that: coordination. The ILO should collaborate fully
with the United Nations and all relevant
(1) Respect for fundamental principles and
international organizations.
rights at work is critical for human dignity. It is
also critical for recovery and development. 19. The ILO welcomes the G20 invitation to
Consequently, increase: the ILO, working with other relevant
organizations, to assess the actions taken and
(i) vigilance to achieve the elimination and
those required for the future.
prevention of an increase in forms of
forced labour, child labour and 20. We affirm our support to the ILO’s role
discrimination at work; and within the UN Chief Executives Board (CEB),
which can help to create a favourable
(ii) respect for freedom of association, the right
international environment for the mitigation of
to organize and the effective recognition of
the crisis. We encourage the ILO to play a
the right to collective bargaining as
facilitating role to ensure effective and
enabling mechanisms to productive social
coherent implementation of social and
dialogue in times of increased social
economic policies in this respect.
tension, in both the formal and informal
economies. 21. Cooperation is particularly important on
the following issues:
(2) A number of international labour
Conventions and Recommendations, in (1) building a stronger, more globally
addition to the fundamental Conventions, are consistent, supervisory and regulatory
173

--- Page 180 ---
Building social protection systems
framework for the financial sector, so that poverty and inequity, increase demand and
it serves the real economy, promotes contribute to economic stability. The ILO’s
sustainable enterprises and decent work Minimum Wage Fixing Convention, 1970
and better protects savings and pensions (No. 131), can provide guidance in this
of people; respect.
(2) promoting efficient and well-regulated 24. This current crisis should be viewed as
trade and markets that benefit all and an opportunity to shape new gender equality
avoiding protectionism by countries. policy responses. Recovery packages during
Varying development levels of countries economic crises need to take into account the
must be taken into account in lifting impact on women and men and integrate
barriers to domestic and foreign markets; gender concerns in all measures. In
and discussions on recovery packages, both
(3) shifting to a low-carbon, environment- regarding their design and assessing their
friendly economy that helps accelerate the success, women must have an equal voice
jobs recovery, reduce social gaps and with men.
support development goals and realize 25. Giving effect to the recommendations
decent work in the process. and policy options of the Global Jobs Pact
22. For many developing countries, requires consideration of financing.
especially the least developed, the global Developing countries that lack the fiscal space
recession exacerbates large-scale structural to adopt response and recovery policies
unemployment, underemployment and require particular support. Donor countries and
poverty. We recognize the need to: multilateral agencies are invited to consider
providing funding, including existing crisis
(1) give much greater priority to the
resources, for the implementation of these
generation of decent work opportunities
recommendations and policy options.
with systematic, well-resourced, multi-
dimensional programmes to realize V. ILO action
decent work and development in the least
26. The ILO has recognized authority in key
developed countries;
areas of importance to respond to the crisis
(2) promote the creation of employment and and to promote economic and social
create new decent work opportunities development. The ILO’s capacity for research
through the promotion and development of and economic and social data analysis is
sustainable enterprises; important in this context. Its expertise should
(3) provide vocational and technical training be at the centre of its work with governments,
and entrepreneurial skills development social partners and the multilateral system. It
especially for unemployed youth; includes, but is not limited to:
(4) address informality to achieve the – employment generation;
transition to formal employment; – social protection design and financing
(5) recognize the value of agriculture in models;
developing economies and the need for – active labour market programmes;
rural infrastructure, industry and
– minimum wage setting mechanisms;
employment;
– labour market institutions;
(6) enhance economic diversity by building
– labour administration and labour inspection;
capacity for value-added production and
services to stimulate both domestic and – decent work programmes;
external demand; – enterprise creation and development;
(7) encourage the international community, – international labour standards
including international financial – implementation and monitoring;
institutions, to make available resources
– social dialogue;
for countercyclical action in countries
facing fiscal and policy constraints; – data collection;
(8) keep commitments to increased aid to – gender equality in the labour market;
prevent a serious setback to the Millennium – workplace programmes on HIV/AIDS; and
Development Goals; and – labour migration.
(9) urge the international community to provide The following activities can only strengthen the
development assistance, including practical work outlined above:
budgetary support, to build up a basic
 improving countries’ capacity to produce
social protection floor on a national basis.
and use labour market information,
Governments should consider options
including on wage trends, as a basis for
such as minimum wages that can reduce
174

--- Page 181 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
informed policy decisions, and collect and  strengthening country-level diagnostic and
analyse consistent data to help countries policy advisory capacity; and
benchmark their progress;  prioritizing crisis response in Decent Work
 collecting and disseminating information on Country Programmes.
countries’ crisis response and recovery 28. The ILO commits to allocating the
packages; necessary human and financial resources and
 assessing the actions taken and those working with other agencies to assist
required for the future, working with other constituents who request such support to
relevant organizations; utilize the Global Jobs Pact. In doing so, the
 strengthening partnerships with regional ILO will be guided by the 2008 Declaration on
development banks and other Social Justice for a Fair Globalization and
international financial institutions; accompanying resolution.
Resolution and conclusions concerning social security, International
Labour Conference, 89th Session, 2001
Resolution concerning social security cohesion, thereby helping to ensure social
peace and social inclusion. It is an
The General Conference of the International
indispensable part of government social policy
Labour Organization, meeting in its 89th
and an important tool to prevent and alleviate
Session, 2001,
poverty. It can, through national solidarity and
Having undertaken a general discussion on
fair burden sharing, contribute to human
the basis of Report VI, Social security: Issues,
dignity, equity and social justice. It is also
challenges and prospects;
important for political inclusion, empowerment
1. Adopts the following conclusions; and the development of democracy.
2. Invites the Governing Body of the 3. Social security, if properly managed,
International Labour Office: enhances productivity by providing health
(a) to give due consideration to them in care, income security and social services. In
planning future action on social security; conjunction with a growing economy and
(b) to request the Director-General to take active labour market policies, it is an
them into account both when preparing the instrument for sustainable social and
programme and budget for the 2004-05 economic development. It facilitates structural
biennium and in allocating such resources and technological changes which require an
as may be available during the 2002-03 adaptable and mobile labour force. It is noted
biennium. that while social security is a cost for
enterprises, it is also an investment in, or
Conclusions concerning social security support for, people. With globalization and
1. In 1944 the Conference recognized “the structural adjustment policies, social security
solemn obligation of the International Labour becomes more necessary than ever.
Organization to further among the nations of 4. There is no single right model of social
the world programmes which will achieve … security. It grows and evolves over time. There
the extension of social security measures to are schemes of social assistance, universal
provide a basic income to all in need of such schemes, social insurance and public or
protection and comprehensive medical care”. private provisions. Each society must
It is time for a renewed campaign by the ILO to determine how best to ensure income security
improve and extend social security coverage and access to health care. These choices will
to all those in need of such protection. The reflect their social and cultural values, their
Director-General is invited to address the history, their institutions and their level of
conclusions set out below with the seriousness economic development. The State has a
and urgency they deserve in order to priority role in the facilitation, promotion and
overcome a fundamental social injustice extension of coverage of social security. All
affecting hundreds of millions in member systems should conform to certain basic
States. principles. In particular, benefits should be
2. Social security is very important for the secure and non-discriminatory; schemes
well-being of workers, their families and the should be managed in a sound and
entire community. It is a basic human right and transparent manner, with administrative costs
a fundamental means for creating social as low as practicable and a strong role for the
social partners. Public confidence in social
175

--- Page 182 ---
Building social protection systems
security systems is a key factor for their benefits must be adequate. Where it is not
success. For confidence to exist, good deemed feasible to establish a system of
governance is essential. unemployment benefits, efforts should be
5. Of highest priority are policies and made to provide employment in labour-
initiatives which can bring social security to intensive public works and other projects, as is
those who are not covered by existing successfully done in a number of developing
systems. In many countries these include countries.
employees in small workplaces, the self- 8. Social security should promote and be
employed, migrant workers, and people – based on the principle of gender equality.
many of them women – active in the informal However, this implies not only equal treatment
economy. When coverage cannot be for men and women in the same or similar
immediately provided to these groups, situations, but also measures to ensure
insurance – where appropriate on a voluntary equitable outcomes for women. Society
basis – or other measures such as social derives great benefit from the unpaid care
assistance could be introduced and extended which women in particular provide to children,
and integrated into the social security system parents and infirm family members. Women
at a later stage when the value of the benefits should not be systemically disadvantaged later
has been demonstrated and it is economically in life because they made this contribution
sustainable to do so. Certain groups have during their working years.
different needs and some have very low 9. As a result of the vastly increased
contributory capacity. The successful participation of women in the labour force and
extension of social security requires that these the changing roles of men and women, social
differences be taken into account. The security systems originally based on the male
potential of microinsurance should also be breadwinner model correspond less and less
rigorously explored: even if it cannot be the to the needs of many societies. Social security
basis of a comprehensive social security and social services should be designed on the
system, it could be a useful first step, basis of equality of men and women.
particularly in responding to people’s urgent Measures which facilitate the access of
need for improved access to health care. women to employment will support the trend
Policies and initiatives on the extension of towards granting women social security
coverage should be taken within the context of benefits in their own right, rather than as
an integrated national social security strategy. dependants. The nature of survivors’ benefits
6. The fundamental challenge posed by the needs to be kept under review and, in the
informal economy is how to integrate it into the event of reform, appropriate transitional
formal economy. This is a matter of equity and provisions must be made to protect women
social solidarity. Policies must encourage whose life course and expectations have been
movement away from the informal economy. based on the patterns of the past.
Support for vulnerable groups in the informal 10. In most societies, continued inequalities
economy should be financed by society as a in earnings between men and women tend to
whole. affect women’s social security entitlements.
7. For persons of working age, the best way This underlines the need for continued efforts
to provide a secure income is through decent to combat wage discrimination and to consider
work. The provision of cash benefits to the the desirability of introducing a minimum wage,
unemployed should there- fore be closely where it does not already exist. Where either
coordinated with training and retraining and parent provides care for children, social
other assistance they may require in order to security benefits for childcare purposes should
find employment. With the growth of be made available to the caregiver.
economies in the future, education and skills Furthermore, each society should consider
of the workforce will be increasingly important. introducing positive discrimination in favour of
Education should be made available to all women where systemic discrimination is
children to achieve adequate life skills, literacy faced.
and numeracy, and to facilitate personal 11. The ageing of the population in many
growth and entry into the workforce. Lifelong societies is a phenomenon which is having a
learning is vital to maintain employability in significant effect on both advance-funded and
today’s economy. Unemployment benefits pay-as-you-go pension systems and on the
should be designed so that they do not create cost of health care. This is transparent in pay-
dependency or barriers to employment. as-you-go systems where a direct transfer
Measures to make work financially more takes place from contributors to pensioners. It
attractive than being in receipt of social is, however, just as real in advance-funded
security have been found effective. However systems, where financial assets are sold to
176

--- Page 183 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
pay for pensions and purchased by the 15. Social security covers health care and
working generation. Solutions must be sought family benefits and provides income security in
above all through measures to increase the event of such contingencies as sickness,
employment rates, notably of women, older unemployment, old age, invalidity,
workers, youth and persons with disabilities. employment injury, maternity or loss of a
Ways must also be found to achieve higher breadwinner. It is not always necessary, nor
levels of sustainable economic growth leading even in some cases feasible, to have the same
to additional numbers in productive range of social security provisions for all
employment. categories of people. However, social security
12. In many developing countries, systems evolve over time and can become
particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, the more comprehensive in regard to categories of
HIV/AIDS pandemic is having a catastrophic people and range of provisions as national
effect on every aspect of society. Its impact on circumstances permit. Where there is limited
the financial base of their social security capacity to finance social security, either from
systems is particularly acute, as the victims are general tax revenues or contributions — and
concentrated among the working age particularly where there is no employer to pay
population. This crisis calls for a much more a share of the contribution — priority should be
urgent response through research and given in the first instance to needs which are
technical assistance by the ILO. most pressing in the view of the groups
concerned.
13. In pay-as-you-go defined benefit pension
systems, risk is borne collectively. In systems 16. Within the framework of the basic
of individual savings accounts, on the other principles set out earlier, each country should
hand, risk is borne by the individual. While this determine a national strategy for working
is an option which exists, it should not weaken towards social security for all. This should be
solidarity systems which spread risks closely linked to its employment strategy and
throughout the whole of the scheme to its other social policies. Targeted social
membership. Statutory pension schemes must assistance programmes could be one means
guarantee adequate benefit levels and ensure to commence the introduction of social security
national solidarity. Supplementary and other for excluded groups. As government
negotiated pension schemes tailored more to resources are limited in developing countries,
the circumstances and contributory capacity of there may be a need to broaden the sources
different groups in the labour force can be a of funding for social security through, for
valued addition to, but in most cases not a example, tripartite financing. Where possible,
substitute for, statutory pension schemes. The government support might cover initial start-up
social partners have an important role to play costs, in-kind support in the form of facilities
with regard to supplementary and other and equipment, or support for low-income
negotiated schemes, while the State’s role is groups. In order to be effective, initiatives to
to provide an effective regulatory framework, establish or extend social security require
and supervisory and enforcement social dialogue. Any changes to established
mechanisms. Governments should consider social security systems should be introduced
that any support or tax incentives for these with adequate protection for existing
schemes should be targeted towards low- or beneficiaries. Innovative pilot schemes are to
medium-income earners. It is for each society be encouraged. Well-designed and cost-
to determine the appropriate mix of schemes, effective research is necessary in order to
taking account of the conclusions of this provide objective evaluations of pilot schemes.
general discussion and relevant ILO social Research and technical assistance are
security standards. necessary to improve governance of systems.
14. To be sustainable, the financial viability 17. ILO activities in social security should be
of pension systems must be guaranteed over anchored in the Declaration of Philadelphia,
the long term. It is therefore necessary to the decent work concept and relevant ILO
conduct regular actuarial projections and to social security standards. Social security is not
implement the necessary adjustments sooner available to the majority of the world’s people.
rather than later. It is essential to make a full This is a major challenge which needs to be
actuarial evaluation of any proposed reform addressed in the coming years. In that regard
before adopting new legislation. There is a the Conference proposes that:
need for social dialogue on the assumptions to – a major campaign should be launched in
be used in the evaluation and on the order to promote the extension of
development of policy options to address any coverage of social security;
financial imbalance. – the ILO should call on governments to give
the issue of social security a higher priority
177

--- Page 184 ---
Building social protection systems
and offer technical assistance in partners should include a wide range of
appropriate cases; measures, in particular:
– the ILO should advise governments and – extending and improving social security
the social partners on the formulation of a coverage;
national social security strategy and ways – developing innovative approaches in the
to implement it; area of social security to help people to
– the ILO should collect and disseminate move from the informal economy to the
examples of best practice. Constituents formal economy;
should be encouraged to approach the ILO – improving the governance, financing and
for special assistance to achieve administration of social security schemes;
outcomes which significantly improve the
– supporting and training the social partners
application of social security coverage to
to participate in policy development and to
groups which are currently excluded. The
serve effectively on joint or tripartite
programme is to be undertaken as soon as
governing bodies of social security
practicable and be subject to regular
institutions;
reports to the Governing Body.
– improving and adapting social security
18. The main areas identified for future social
systems in response to changing social,
security research and meetings of experts are:
demographic and economic conditions;
– the extension of coverage of social
– introducing means to overcome
security;
discrimination in outcomes in social
– HIV/AIDS and its impact on social security; security.
– governance and administration of social 20. The ILO should complete the programme
security systems; of work as recommended above and must
– equality, with an emphasis on gender and report regularly to the Governing Body on the
disability; results of that work, thereby enabling the
– ageing and its impact on social security; Governing Body to monitor progress and
decide how to proceed further.
– financing of social security;
21. The ILO should continue to develop
– sharing of good practice.
interagency cooperation in the social security
These activities should form the basis for the
field, including with the International Social
further development of the ILO policy
Security Association. The ILO should invite the
framework on social security and should be
IMF and the World Bank to support the
clearly linked to the further work programme,
conclusions adopted by the Conference and to
technical assistance priorities and activities of
join with the ILO in promoting social justice and
the ILO in this area. The ILO’s technical
social solidarity through the extension of
cooperation with governments and the social
comprehensive social security.
Resolution and conclusions concerning the recurrent discussion on
social protection (social security), International Labour Conference,
100th Session, 2011
Resolution concerning the recurrent 2. Invites the Governing Body of the
discussion on social protection International Labour Office as a follow-up to
(social security) the recurrent discussion on social protection
The General Conference of the International (social security) and in line with the following
Labour Organization, meeting in Geneva at its conclusions which recognize the need for a
100th Session, 2011, Recommendation, to place a standard-setting
item entitled “Elaboration of an autonomous
Having undertaken, in accordance with the ILO
Recommendation on the Social Protection
Declaration on Social Justice for a Fair
Floor” on the agenda of the 101st Session of
Globalization, a recurrent discussion on the
the International Labour Conference, 2012, for
basis of Report VI, Social security for social
a single discussion with a view to the adoption
justice and a fair globalization,
of a Recommendation, and
1. Adopts the following conclusions,
3. Invites the Governing Body of the
International Labour Office to give due
178

--- Page 185 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
consideration to the following conclusions in African Decent Work Symposium in Yaoundé
planning future action on social protection in 2010, and the Chair’s Summary of the
(social security) and requests the Director- Tripartite Meeting of Experts on Strategies for
General to take them into account when the Extension of Social Security Coverage in
preparing and implementing the programme 2009.
and budget for future biennia and when 4. This consensus concerning social security
allocating such other resources as may be is underpinned by the Decent Work Agenda,
available during the 2012–13 biennium. including its four pillars: employment, social
dialogue, social protection and standards and
Conclusions concerning the recurrent
fundamental principles and rights. These four
discussion on social protection
pillars are inseparable, interrelated and
(social security)
mutually supportive. These conclusions on
Adopted at 100th Session of the International
social security sit within this context.
Labour Conference, 2011
Sustainable social security systems are a key
Policy and institutional context element in promoting productive economic
growth with equity. They are closely linked to
1. The new consensus on social security
all of the elements of the Decent Work Agenda
reached at the International Labour Conference,
and should be based on entitlements within a
at its 89th Session in 2001, gave the highest
legal framework. Tripartism and social
priority to policies and initiatives that can bring
dialogue based on freedom of association and
social security to those who are not covered by
the effective recognition of the right to
existing schemes. Consequently, the
collective bargaining are key elements to
International Labour Office launched in 2003 the
ensure adequate wages for workers thereby
Global Campaign on Social Security and
assisting them to increase their contributory
Coverage for All. The ILO Declaration on Social
capacity. They also contribute to the
Justice for a Fair Globalization, adopted by the
sustainability of broader social security
International Labour Conference at its
systems in which non-contributory and
97th Session in 2008, again reaffirmed the
contributory schemes complement each other.
tripartite commitment to extend social security to
all in need of such protection in the framework The role of and need for social security
of the Decent Work Agenda.
5. The Conference recognizes and reiterates
2. The International Labour Conference at its that:
98th Session in 2009 recognized the crucial role
(a) Social security is a human right.
of social protection policies in crisis response,
Everyone as a member of society has a
and the Global Jobs Pact called for countries to
right to social security as stated in the
“give consideration, as appropriate, to building
Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
adequate social protection for all, drawing on a
Article 22. Globally the large majority of
basic social protection floor”. The High-level
women, men and children do not have
Plenary Meeting of the UN General Assembly
access to adequate or any social security.
on the Millennium Development Goals (MDG
By recognizing in the Declaration of
Summit) in September 2010 recognized that
Philadelphia the solemn obligation of the
“promoting universal access to social services
International Labour Organization “to
and providing social protection floors can make
further among the nations of the world
an important contribution to consolidating and
programmes which will achieve … the
achieving further development gains” and
extension of social security measures to
hence endorsed the Social Protection Floor
provide a basic income to all in need of
Initiative which the UN Chief Executives Board
such protection and comprehensive
had launched in 2009.
medical care”, its member States
3. Regional tripartite ILO meetings in Latin
confirmed the ILO’s commitment to
America, Arab States and Asia and the Pacific
achieving adequate social security for all.
during 2007 and 2008 discussed social
(b) Social security is a social necessity.
security extension strategies. A generic two-
dimensional extension strategy, combining the Effective national social security systems
extension of coverage to all through nationally are powerful tools to provide income
defined social protection floors and the security, to prevent and reduce poverty
progressive implementation of higher levels of and inequality, and promote social
social security through comprehensive inclusion and dignity. They are an
systems, emerged. This strategy was important investment in the well-being of
endorsed by the Yaoundé Tripartite workers and the population at large,
Declaration on the implementation of the notably by enhancing access to health
Social Protection Floor adopted at the 2nd care, and providing income security
179

--- Page 186 ---
Building social protection systems
thereby facilitating access to education 8. Closing coverage gaps is of highest
and reducing child labour and in particular priority for equitable economic growth, social
eliminating its worst forms. Social security cohesion and Decent Work for all women and
strengthens social cohesion and thus men. Effective national strategies to extend
contributes to building social peace, social security in line with national priorities,
inclusive societies and a fair globalization administrative feasibility and affordability
with decent standards of living for all. contribute to achieving these objectives.
(c) Social security is an economic necessity. These national strategies should aim at
achieving universal coverage of the population
Full, productive and decent employment is
with at least minimum levels of protection
the most important source of income
(horizontal dimension) and progressively
security. Social protection is key to ensure
ensuring higher levels of protection guided by
a just share of the fruits of progress for all.
up-to-date ILO social security standards
Sustainable growth requires good health,
(vertical dimension). The two dimensions of
nutrition and education, which can foster
the extension of coverage are consistent with
transitions from low productivity and
moving towards compliance with the
subsistence level activities to highly
requirements of the Social Security (Minimum
productive decent jobs and from the
Standards) Convention, 1952 (No. 102), and
informal to the formal economy. Social
are of equal importance and should be
security, well designed and linked to other
pursued simultaneously where possible.
policies, enhances productivity,
employability and supports economic 9. The horizontal dimension should aim at
development. Adequate social security the rapid implementation of national Social
encourages human capital investment for Protection Floors, containing basic social
both employers and workers, enables security guarantees that ensure that over the
workers to adapt to change and facilitates life cycle all in need can afford and have
equitable and inclusive structural change access to essential health care and have
associated with globalization. As an income security at least at a nationally defined
effective automatic stabilizer in times of minimum level. Social Protection Floor policies
crisis, social security contributes to should aim at facilitating effective access to
mitigating the economic and social impact essential goods and services, promote
of economic downturns, to enhancing productive economic activity and be
resilience, and achieving faster recovery implemented in close coordination with other
towards inclusive growth. policies enhancing employability, reducing
informality and precariousness, creating
Social security extension strategies decent jobs and promoting entrepreneurship.
6. Many developing countries have made 10. As a one-size-fits-all approach is not
significant progress in extending social appropriate, every member State should design
security coverage during the last decade. They and implement its Social Protection Floor
offer the best evidence that the extension of guarantees according to national circumstances
social security is possible. Despite these and priorities defined with the participation of
advances, broad social security coverage social partners. While expected outcomes of
gaps remain in many countries of the world. In these guarantees are of a universal nature,
some regions, the vast majority of the member States find different ways of
population is excluded from social security. implementing Social Protection Floor policies,
7. The risk of being excluded from coverage which may include universal benefit schemes,
is particularly high among certain groups, social insurance, public employment
including workers in the informal economy and programmes and employment support
atypical forms of employment, vulnerable schemes, and social assistance schemes that
workers in rural and urban areas, domestic provide benefits only to people with low income,
workers, migrant workers, unskilled workers, or appropriate combinations of such measures.
and people with disabilities and chronic To be effective, these policies require an
illnesses, including those affected by HIV and appropriate mix of preventive measures,
AIDS. Women tend to face higher exclusion benefits and social services.
than men, due to discrimination throughout the 11. The process of building comprehensive
life cycle and the burden they usually shoulder social security systems cannot stop at the
in family and care responsibilities. Children of ground floor of protection. Hence, the vertical
excluded populations are more likely to grow dimension of the social security coverage
up in impaired states of health and nutrition extension strategy in each member State
that undermine their future and that of their should seek to provide higher levels of income
societies. security and access to health care – taking into
180

--- Page 187 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
account and progressing towards in the first economy and reduce the costs of
instance the coverage and benefit provisions formalization. Member States should be
of Convention No. 102 – to as many people as encouraged to strengthen compliance
possible and as soon as possible; based, as a assistance, the promotion and the
prerequisite, on policies aiming at encouraging enforcement of legal frameworks including by
participation of those in the informal economy adequate labour, tax and social security
and its gradual formalization. As economies inspections aiming at reducing fraud, and
develop and become more resilient, people’s informality including disguised employment,
income security and their access to health care undeclared business and undeclared work.
should be strengthened. The formalization of the economy is one of the
12. National strategies to extend social crucial prerequisites for long-term growth and
security should progress based on the will increase the public revenue base
resources of the nation and a set of essential necessary to finance higher levels of social
principles, i.e. universal coverage, progressive security for contributors and taxpayers and
realization while providing immediate non-contributory benefits to cover those
protection against discrimination, promoting without capacity to contribute.
gender equality, social and economic
Ensuring the affordability and
adequacy, rights-based benefits, financial and
the financing of social security
fiscal sustainability, good governance with the
15. The expenditure required to finance
overall general responsibility of the State and
social security systems is a long-term
the ongoing participation of social partners,
investment in people. Societies that do not
and finally institutional and organizational
invest in social security face important costs
questions should not prevent adequate
such as those associated with the lack of a
protective outcomes. These principles should
healthy and productive workforce, economic
guide national policy and strategic decisions.
insecurity and social exclusion. On the other
13. Strategies to extend social security are
hand, investing in people through social
closely associated with employment policies.
security systems requires resources that have
Member States should therefore pay particular
to be provided by enterprises, workers,
attention to building an economic and social
households and others as contributors and
framework that is conducive to sustainable
taxpayers. It is thus essential that a rational
enterprise creation and growth of decent and
balance is found between short- and long-term
productive employment. A large informal
costs and benefits of social security systems
economy constitutes a particular challenge for
for society and different groups of financers
the extension of social security coverage.
and beneficiaries.
Social insurance remains the central pillar of
16. Social security interventions need to
social security systems in most member
achieve their objectives in terms of both social
States, yet it tends to focus on formal
and economic adequacy in an effective and
employees. However, a growing number of
cost-efficient way. Permanent monitoring and
developing countries have gradually extended
evaluation by the social partners of the short-
the scope of social insurance coverage to
and long-term effectiveness and efficiency of
other categories of workers such as own-
individual programmes and social security
account workers, domestic workers or workers
systems, including actuarial studies, are
in rural areas and workers in small and micro-
important mechanisms and may lead to reform
enterprises by adapting the scope of benefits,
and adjustments whenever necessary. In the
contributions and administrative procedures.
case of State operated schemes transparency,
The inclusion of these groups in social
consultation and social dialogue are
insurance is a key component of the
appropriate. In the case of schemes that
formalization of employment and can also
involve workers and employers organizations
reduce the cost of tax-financed benefit
social dialogue and agreements are usually
systems for poor workers in the informal
appropriate.
economy.
17. Many member States at all levels of
14. Member States should be encouraged to
development have already implemented
continuously employ efforts aimed at the
elements of a national Social Protection Floor
transition from informal to formal economies.
as part of their efforts in building
While social security policies have a strong
comprehensive social security systems.
role to play in attaining this objective, they
Member States have chosen different options
have to be complemented by fiscal and
to ensure the necessary fiscal space, including
employment policies, and by developing
reprioritizing expenditure, and broadening the
administrative procedures aimed to create
revenue base. Sustainable growth, the
adequate incentives to join the formal
progressive formalization of the economy and
181

--- Page 188 ---
Building social protection systems
high levels of productive employment are reflecting employment growth and Decent
essential in ensuring the financial resources Work;
necessary to extend social security to all. (f) investing in education, vocational skills
18. While national Social Protection Floors and lifelong learning;
should be financed from domestic sources of (g) promoting the good governance of labour
revenue to ensure their long-term migration;
sustainability, there may be cases where these
(h) facilitating reconciliation of work and family
resources are insufficient to extend the Social
responsibilities for women and men, and
Protection Floor to all in a short time frame.
ensuring effective access to
International cooperation can play an
comprehensive social services to address
important role in helping member States to
care needs including for children, people
initiate the process and build the national
in old age, people living with HIV and AIDS
resource base with a view to ensuring
and with disabilities. This includes,
sustainable financing mechanisms.
maternity protection such as adequate pre
19. The affordability of social security and post natal care and income
systems is widely discussed in the context of guarantees and other supports for women
demographic change. The expected increase during the last weeks of pregnancy and the
in economic dependency ratios over the next first weeks after delivery;
decades raises concerns about the
(i) policies to enable all workers including
sustainability of social security systems. The
those in atypical employment to take
ageing of the population will increase
advantage of social security;
expenditure on pensions, health and long-term
(j) promoting labour force participation of
care in the decades to come. However,
women by more equitable treatment
evidence suggests that this challenge is
creating better employment opportunities,
manageable within properly organized
reducing the segmentation of the labour
systems. Necessary reform processes can be
market between men and women,
successfully managed fairly balancing social
eliminating gender gaps in wages and
needs and financial and fiscal requirements, if
providing equal professional development
embedded in a well informed social dialogue
opportunities;
process.
(k) facilitating effective school-to-work
20. It is indispensable to create positive
transitions;
synergies for sustainable growth and higher
levels of decent employment between social (l) improving the rehabilitation of workers with
protection, financial and economic policies. reduced working capacity including
Integrated national policies promoting personal support and training where
productive employment are necessary to appropriate with a view to fostering their
ensure sustainable financing, addressing participation in the labour market;
possible skills shortages, promoting (m) combining the income replacement
productivity, taking advantage of a wider function of social security with active
diversity of the workforce in terms of sex, age, labour market policies as well as
nationality and ethnic origin and facilitating a assistance and incentives that promote
better balance between work and family real participation in the formal labour
responsibilities for women and men. Some of market.
the policy options lie within the realm of social 21. Ensuring adequate labour force
security policies proper, while others reside in participation of older women and men is often
other policy spheres. Such options may essential for the adaptation of social security
include: systems to demographic change. In addition to
(a) integrating macroeconomic, employment policies to promote full employment, measures
and social policies that give priority to to promote the employment of older workers
Decent Work; may include:
(b) investing social security reserves (a) investing in technologies and occupational
prudently; safety and health measures that permit the
(c) building quality public services that productive employment of older workers
enhance effective social security systems; and workers with health impairments and
disabilities;
(d) promoting social dialogue, the effective
recognition of the right to collective (b) raising the labour force participation rates
bargaining and freedom of association; of older workers by eliminating age
discrimination and providing incentives for
(e) promoting and strengthening the enabling
workers and employers to address
environment for sustainable enterprises
182

--- Page 189 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
enterprise restructuring through innovative contributions due are paid by all those obliged
work arrangements; to pay and benefits delivered to all those
(c) introducing socially acceptable rules eligible. This requires well-resourced and well-
through a transparent process, including trained public inspection services to promote
social dialogue and tripartism, as to the and ensure the law enforcement and the
age at which people withdraw from the prevention of contribution evasion, fraud and
labour market, which should reflect a corruption. However this also requires active
sustainable relationship between the monitoring by employers, workers and other
duration and demands of working life and stakeholders.
retirement taking into account issues such 27. To play the expected active role in
as conditions of work, years of service and securing good social security governance, all
the recognition that retirement is a workers and employers need to be aware of,
legitimate part of the life cycle. and understand, existing social security
provisions and emerging challenges. Member
Social security governance
States should consider including basic
22. Social security systems need to be well knowledge about social security in the
managed and administered to ensure education and training curricula at different
effectiveness in reaching agreed objectives, levels of the national education systems.
efficiency in using resources, and Employers’ and workers’ organizations have to
transparency to gain confidence of those who build significant capacity to be able to share
finance them and benefit from these systems. the social security knowledge with their
Active involvement of all stakeholders, and in members as well as to actively participate in
particular workers and employers through social dialogue on social security policies and
effective social dialogue mechanisms and in monitoring and supervision of social security
tripartite supervision, is one of the important schemes.
means to secure good governance of social
security systems. The role of ILO standards
23. The general responsibility for an effective 28. The up-to-date ILO social security
and efficient social security system lies with standards, and in particular Convention
the State, particularly with creating political No. 102, provide a unique set of minimum
commitment and with respect to setting standards for national social security systems
appropriate policy, legal and regulatory that are internationally accepted. They set out
frameworks and the supervision that principles that guide the design, financing,
guarantee adequate benefit levels, good governance and monitoring of national social
governance and management and protecting security systems. Convention No. 102
acquired rights of beneficiaries and other continues to serve as a benchmark and
participants. reference in the gradual development of
comprehensive social security coverage at the
24. Collective bargaining and freedom of
national level. Several member States currently
association play an important role in helping
implementing successful and innovative social
employers and workers negotiate on social
security extension policies have recently ratified
security provisions, including for occupational
Convention No. 102 and others have indicated
and other supplementary schemes.
their intention to do so.
Agreements should be in the context of a state
regulatory framework. 29. Increasing ratification and effective
implementation of Convention No. 102 and
25. Social dialogue is essential in identifying
other social security Conventions remain a key
and defining priority policy objectives; the
priority for member States. It is therefore
design of the corresponding benefits,
essential to raise awareness and
entitlements and delivery methods; the
understanding of ILO social security
allocation of the financial burden between
standards, to identify gaps in coverage that still
generations and between contributors and tax
may prevent further ratifications, and to design
payers; and the need to find a fair balance
policies that may close these gaps. In
between social expectations and financial
particular, this should also include the
constraints.
dissemination of information on the
26. Social dialogue is an important means for
requirements concerning implementation of
contributing to the permanent monitoring of
these instruments and devote special efforts to
financial sustainability and the social
capacity building and the training of the social
adequacy, effectiveness and efficiency of
partners, and thus to strengthening the role of
management and administration of the
social dialogue in the implementation of
scheme. It is also important in enforcing the
standards.
existing social security legislation so that the
183

--- Page 190 ---
Building social protection systems
30. As also noted in the outcome of the (c) the development of a national two-
discussion on the General Survey of 2011 on dimensional social security extension strategy,
social security by the Committee on the through a social dialogue-based consultation
Application of Standards, the language of process, that identifies gaps in the desired
certain provisions of Convention No. 102 is levels of social security and seeks to close
often interpreted as gender-biased. There is a those gaps in a coordinated and planned
need for a pragmatic solution that would manner over a period of time with a view to
enable its interpretation in a gender- developing national Social Protection Floors
responsive way without revising the instrument and building comprehensive social security
itself or weakening the prescribed levels of systems;
protection and population coverage. This may (d) ensuring that social security policies take
facilitate further ratifications by a number of account of changing roles of women and
member States. men with respect to employment and care
31. In view of the renewed support for the responsibilities, promote gender equality,
provision of at least a basic level of social provide maternity protection and support
security through establishing Social Protection the empowerment of women through
Floors, there is a need for a Recommendation measures to ensure equitable outcomes
complementing the existing standards that for women;
would provide flexible but meaningful guidance (e) ensuring that social security policies
to member States in building Social Protection address the needs of women, men and
Floors within comprehensive social security children during all stages of the life cycle
systems tailored to national circumstances and and in both urban and rural areas, and the
levels of development. Such a specific needs of vulnerable groups,
Recommendation should be promotional, including indigenous people, minorities,
gender-responsive and allow for flexible migrant workers, people with disabilities,
implementation to be applied by all member people living with HIV and AIDS, orphans
States using different methods and according to and vulnerable children;
their own needs, resources and their time frame
(f) strengthening labour and social security
for progressive implementation. Elements of a
inspection systems to improve compliance
possible Recommendation on Social Protection
with social security and occupational
Floors are outlined in the appendix to these
safety and health legislation and
conclusions.
strengthen the preventive potential of the
The role of governments and latter through the promotion of a health
social partners and safety culture;
32. Governments have the primary (g) concluding bilateral, regional or
responsibility for ensuring effective access to multilateral agreements to provide equality
social security to all. Effective social dialogue of treatment in respect of social security,
processes play a key role in contributing to the as well as access to and preservation
formulation, implementation and monitoring of and/or portability of social security
social security policies and ensuring good entitlements, to migrant workers to be
governance of national social security covered by such agreements;
systems. (h) ensuring the financial, fiscal and economic
33. Governments of member States should sustainability of social security systems
consider and/or undertake the following: through appropriate policies and different
financing mechanisms, developed in
(a) fully assuming their responsibility for social
consultation with or by social partners as
security by providing an appropriate
appropriate;
policy, legal and institutional framework,
effective governance and management (i) balancing, with the participation of social
mechanisms, including a legal framework partners, the economic and social
to secure and protect the private individual adequacy in public and private social
information contained in their social security schemes in the longer term;
security data systems; (j) engaging with social partners and
(b) fostering coherence of social security promoting effective social dialogue to
policies with employment, macroeconomic, define the most appropriate national social
and other social policies within a decent security policies and time frames for their
work framework, particularly with respect to progressive implementation;
promoting the progressive formalization of (k) giving full effect to the provisions of
employment and providing support for Convention No. 102 and other up-to-date
productive employment; ILO social security Conventions, and
184

--- Page 191 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
undertaking measures to ratify these extend social security coverage, including
Conventions; national Social Protection Floors, in the
(l) contributing to exchange of information, wider context of comprehensive national
experiences and expertise on social social and economic policy frameworks;
security policies and practices among (b) assist member States in designing and
member States and with the ILO. improving the governance, management
34. Employers’ and workers’ organizations and effective delivery systems of social
should consider and/or undertake the security schemes, and to evaluate
following: regularly the impact, viability and
sustainability of social security policies;
(a) raising awareness and building public
support for social security among their (c) further strengthen member States’
members and the wider public, including capacities to design, implement and
on ILO social security standards; monitor social security systems that are
responsive to challenges including
(b) actively participating in social dialogue
changing demographic trends and
processes aiming at the design,
migration and assuring their proper
implementation and monitoring of national
functioning;
social security strategies and policies, with
a view to responding to the evolving needs (d) support the establishment of bilateral and
and capacities of workers and enterprises; multilateral agreements to provide social
security to migrant workers and their
(c) contributing to the development of
families;
innovative solutions including those which
might address economic shocks, (e) strengthen the ILO’s leading role in the
structural changes and sustainability promotion of the Social Protection Floor at
including through collective bargaining; both the international and national level
with the participation of constituents and in
(d) participating in policy dialogue aimed at
partnership with other international
the establishment of national Social
organizations;
Protection Floors;
(f) support the development of
(e) jointly developing initiatives to support the
macroeconomic frameworks and policies,
transition to formal employment and
including activation measures, which are
formal enterprises;
conducive to the creation of quality
(f) supporting the development of standards
employment and sustainable and effective
of good performance and accountability
social security systems;
for effective and efficient and sustainable
(g) support member States in formulating and
operation of the overall national social
implementing, in consultation with
security systems;
employers’ and workers’ organizations,
(g) actively participating in the governance of
national policies aimed at facilitating
social security institutions in order to
progressive transition from the informal to
ensure the effective representation of
the formal economy;
protected persons and tax payers and
(h) promote, at the national and international
contributors;
level, social dialogue and the role of social
(h) assisting workers and employers in their
partners in the design, governance and
interactions with social security
implementation of comprehensive and
institutions, ensuring due contribution
sustainable social security for all;
collection and provision of benefits;
(i) devote special efforts to capacity building
(i) collaborating with the Government and the
and the training of the social partners on
ILO in promoting the ratification and
ILO social security standards, thus
effective implementation of Convention
strengthening the role of social dialogue in
No. 102.
ways the standards are implemented;
The role of the ILO and follow-up (j) strengthen the capacities of social
35. The Conference calls upon the partners to engage in policy dialogue, and
International Labour Office in the context of the social security governance at the national
Global Campaign on Social Security and level through the further development of
Coverage for All to: appropriate training programmes,
technical assistance and other means;
(a) assist member States, including through
Decent Work Country Programmes and (k) expand the assistance to constituents in
appropriate technical advisory services, to enhancing awareness and understanding
support the design and implementation of of ILO social security standards and their
national two-dimensional strategies to implementation, designing policies to
185

--- Page 192 ---
Building social protection systems
overcome obstacles to ratification and on the agenda of the 101st Session of the
undertaking innovative initiatives for International Labour Conference in 2012.
promoting up-to-date ILO Conventions on 38. The Conference invites the Governing
social security, notably Convention Body to consider, in light of the resolution
No. 102; concerning gender equality and the use of
(l) develop in cooperation with ILO language in legal texts of the ILO, the question
constituents a social security good of gender-sensitive language in ILO social
practices guide that provides member security standards and report to the
States with practical guidance and Conference at a later session.
benchmarks to evaluate and enhance their 39. The Conference requests the Director-
national social protection provisions, General to prepare a plan of action for the
including general and financial social implementation of the other recommendations
security management, benefit design and of these conclusions and of the outcome of the
good governance; discussions of the Committee of the
(m) strengthen the International Labour Applications of Standards, and requests the
Office’s research capacities, particularly Governing Body to consider that plan in its
with regard to analysing national social 312th Session in November 2011.
security policies and practices, developing
APPENDIX
tools for the assessment of performance,
and producing reliable statistics, and Elements of a possible Recommendation
ensuring its high quality and visibility with on Social Protection Floors
the view to helping governments and
1. General context
social partners make informed decisions;
A1. Everyone as a member of society has the
(n) facilitate the exchange of experiences and
right to social security as stated in the
good practices, the transfer of knowledge
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article
and by mutual agreement, the transfer of
22. Social security is a social and economic
technologies among member States
necessity, a prerequisite of social and
including the promotion of South–South
economic development, and an element of
and triangular exchange of experiences
Decent Work for all women and men. It can
and expertise;
make a major contribution to the achievement
(o) facilitate the implementation of the ILO’s of the Millennium Development Goals and
mandate on social protection by improving targets.
international policy coherence, effectiveness
and efficiency including by coordinating its 2. Objective
programmes and activities and deepening A2. The Recommendation would focus on the
the collaboration with the UN system, the extension of coverage to wider groups of the
IMF, the World Bank, regional development population (horizontal extension of coverage),
banks, the OECD, the European and thereby supporting the implementation of
Commission and other regional national Social Protection Floors. With respect
organizations, the ISSA and civil society to progressively ensuring higher levels of
organizations. This collaboration is crucial at protection (vertical extension of coverage), the
national level through country-led initiatives; Recommendation would encourage member
(p) strengthen cooperation with ISSA and States to ratify and those that have ratified to
other national and international social ensure the effective implementation of the
security associations, and their member Social Security (Minimum Standards)
organizations, with regard to sharing Convention, 1952 (No. 102), and other up-to-
information and mobilizing expertise to date ILO social security Conventions.
support the ILO’s technical operations; A3. The objective of the Recommendation
(q) proactively and consistently mainstream would be to provide guidance to member
gender in all the above activities in order States to develop a social security extension
to promote gender equality. strategy compatible with, and supportive of,
36. The Conference requests the Director-Gen- wider national social, economic and
eral to take into account these conclusions in pre- employment policy strategies and seek in
paring future programme and budget proposals particular to contribute to poverty reduction
and facilitating extra-budgetary sources, includ- and the formalization of informal employment.
ing Regular Budget Supplementary Accounts.
3. Principles for the implementation
37. The Conference invites the Governing
A4. The extension of social security should be
Body to place the discussion on the possible
country-led and responsive to national needs,
Recommendation mentioned in paragraph 31
priorities and resources. In order to support
186

--- Page 193 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
member States in this task, the Recommenda- outcomes achieved, these guarantees do not
tion would specify a number of principles for the prescribe specific forms of benefits, financing
design and implementation of national social se- mechanisms or the organization of benefit
curity extension strategies in line with the con- delivery.
clusions of this Committee. A7. The Recommendation could encourage
member States to close coverage gaps of
4. Scope of the instrument
populations with contributory capacity through
A5. The Recommendation should encourage
contributory schemes. It would encourage
member States to design, through an effective
member States to ratify up-to-date ILO social
national social dialogue process, a social
security Conventions as early as possible in
security strategy that identifies gaps in the
national social and economic development
achievement of nationally pursued levels of
processes, and to ensure their effective
protection and seeks to close those gaps and
implementation.
build a comprehensive social security system
A8. The Recommendation should encourage
in a coordinated and planned manner over a
member States to establish appropriate
period of time giving due regard to the workers
mechanisms to monitor the extension of social
in the informal economy.
security and the implementation of their
A6. The horizontal dimension of the social
national basic social security guarantees. It
security extension strategy should prioritize
could also invite member States to establish
the implementation of a national Social
mechanisms, based on effective national
Protection Floor, consisting of four basic social
social dialogue, to further extend social
security guarantees, i.e. nationally-defined
security coverage on the basis of Convention
minimum levels of income security during
No. 102 and other up-to-date conventions and
childhood, working age and old age, as well as
build comprehensive social security systems
affordable access to essential health care.
in line with national social needs, and
These guarantees set the minimum levels of
economic and fiscal capacities.
protection that all members of a society should
be entitled to in case of need. Focusing on
Resolution concerning efforts to make social protection floors a national
reality worldwide, International Labour Conference, 101st Session, 2012
The General Conference of the International and evaluate national social protection
Labour Organization, meeting at its floor policies and programmes;
101st Session, 2012, (c) supporting governments and employers’
Having adopted the Social Protection Floors and workers’ organizations in their efforts
Recommendation, 2012, to implement national social protection
floors through:
Recognizing the crucial role of social
protection in social and economic – the facilitation of sharing of
development and notably in combating knowledge, information and good
poverty, vulnerability, social exclusion and practices on social protection among
realizing decent work for all, Members; and
1. Invites governments, employers and – technical cooperation and advice;
workers jointly to give full effect to the Social (d) supporting national dialogue processes on
Protection Floors Recommendation as soon the design and implementation of national
as national circumstances permit; social protection floors; and
2. Invites the Governing Body of the (e) intensifying cooperation and coordination
International Labour Office to request the of support to Members with other relevant
Director-General to implement, subject to the international organizations and employers’
availability of resources, cost-effective and workers’ organizations, as well as with
measures aimed at: other relevant and representative organi-
(a) promoting, through appropriate aware- zations of persons concerned, for the
ness-raising initiatives, the widespread im- development of national social protection
plementation of the Recommendation; strategies.
(b) building the capacity of governments and
employers’ and workers’ organizations to
enable them to design, implement, monitor
187

--- Page 194 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Resolution and conclusions on employment and social protection in the
new demographic context, International Labour Conference, 102nd
Session, 2013
Resolution concerning employment and expected to be living in developing countries.
social protection in the new demographic The majority of older people are women. Old-
age dependency is on the rise: in 2000, there
The General Conference of the International
were nine persons of working age for every
Labour Organization, meeting at its
person over 65; by 2050, there will be only
102nd Session, 2013,
four.
Having undertaken a general discussion on
3. Countries and regions at different stages
the basis of Report IV, Employment and
of demographic transition face different
social protection in the new demographic
challenges and therefore different levels of
context,
urgency are attached to aspects of ageing,
Recognizing that demographic transitions youth employment and the impact of
have major implications for labour markets HIV/AIDS.
and social protection systems,
4. The new demographic context has
Affirming that coherent and integrated profound implications for the labour force and
employment promotion and social protection for labour market dynamics, social security
policies that build on the virtuous cycle of systems, employment and economic
employment, social protection and development.
development are crucial to address the
5. Over the next decade, it is estimated that
demographic challenge,
there will be 420 million more people in the
1. Adopts the following conclusions; and labour force than today. Labour force growth
2. Invites the Governing Body of the is anticipated to be particularly strong in
International Labour Office to give due developing countries, where the majority of
consideration to them in planning future work people currently work in the informal
and to request the Director General to take economy. In contrast, working-age
them into account when preparing future population growth will stagnate or even
programme and budget proposals and to give decline in many developed countries.
effect to them, to the extent possible, when Globally, it will be necessary therefore to
implementing the Programme and Budget for create more than 600 million jobs to integrate
the 2014–15 biennium. the 197 million currently unemployed (73
million of whom are young people) and
Conclusions on employment and social
newcomers to the labour market.
protection in the new demographic
6. Only about 20 per cent of the world’s
context
working-age population is estimated to have
I. DEMOGRAPHIC TRANSITIONS effective access to comprehensive social
AND THEIR CHALLENGES protection. In developing countries,
1. Demographic change, including population 342 million older people lack adequate
ageing, is a universal trend in all countries and income security and, if nothing is done, the
regions, although demographic transitions take number could rise to 1.2 billion by 2050. Food
place at different paces and over different time security, nutrition and access to safe drinking
horizons. The human development index, in water and sanitation are dire problems for
particular the life expectancy component, many families without sufficient income
provides a benchmark. Living longer and security. Older people often have to maintain
healthier lives is one of the most important their economic activity to survive and earn a
achievements of human development, while it living.
should be acknowledged that there is still much 7. Increasing formal employment and
work to be done to ensure that everyone labour force participation rates is essential to
benefits. meeting social protection and economic
2. The world’s population is growing and development needs. However, informal
ageing. By 2050, it is expected to have employment and other forms of inadequately
surpassed 9 billion and the population aged protected work remain pervasive for large
60 years and over will have tripled. Three- segments of the labour force and the
quarters of the world’s older population are transition to decent work is slow and difficult.
188

--- Page 195 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
This also puts at risk access to social (e) Innovative policy packages responsive to
security. change.
8. For many countries, the global economic (f) Effective and efficient social dialogue and
crisis, subsequent adjustment measures and collective bargaining in accordance with
the slowdown in growth continue to impact national policies and practices based on
labour markets and social security systems, mutual trust and respect.
affecting the social fabric and economic (g) Preventing and combating age discrimina-
sustainability. In some countries, high levels tion.
of unemployment, a growing proportion of
(h) Promoting gender equality throughout the
youth who are neither in employment nor in
life cycle.
education or training, job insecurity, growing
(i) Promoting the inclusion of workers with
inequalities, an increasingly uncertain
disabilities.
environment for enterprises, increasing
demand for social protection and the (j) Good governance based on accountability
weakening of social dialogue add to the and transparency.
challenges caused by the demographic (k) Promoting employability and labour force
transition. The crisis is exerting pressure on participation by creating an enabling policy
public finance and debt. It puts at risk environment conducive to sustainable
achievements in social protection and enterprises and job rich growth.
complicates needed reforms. In other (l) Effective youth employment and training
countries, public policies have managed to schemes.
reconcile economic growth, employment and
(m) The right to social security is a human
redistribution of wealth, generating a virtuous
right.
cycle based on comprehensive social
protection systems. (n) Provision of essential health care and
long-term care.
II. GUIDING PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES (o) The strengthening of tripartite efforts for
9. Effective policies are necessary to tackle the effective elimination of child labour.
the challenges of demographic transitions.
The wide range of ILO standards relevant to III. A COMPREHENSIVE POLICY MIX
the context of demographic change provide 10. It is the primary responsibility of the State
policy guidance. The following provide further to implement policies to tackle effectively the
guidance: challenges of demographic transitions. With
(a) A comprehensive multidimensional and in- the right combination of policies and with the
tegrated policy mix that recognizes the in- commitment and action of relevant
terdependency between demographic stakeholders, demographic transitions not only
shifts, employment, labour migration, so- become manageable and sustainable but can
cial protection and economic develop- be turned into opportunities.
ment. 11. Employment and social protection
(b) Guided by the fundamental principles and policies should be developed in such a manner
rights at work of the ILO and pursuing the as to reinforce one another in response to the
objective of decent work over the life cycle, specificities and diverse employment, income
policies will be context specific, taking into patterns and needs of the population. Social
account the diversity of country situations, protection should be viewed as a long-term
including demographic structures, investment, providing stabilization and offering
economic development, legal frameworks, social and economic returns over time.
labour market needs, social security 12. Employment-centred economic policies
systems, and fiscal space. and development strategies are needed to
(c) Integrated and coherent approaches to generate decent and productive jobs for all
training linked to labour market needs, working-age groups, a fair distribution of income,
education, employment promotion and and increase the overall level of employment.
social protection policies that promote the These include pro-employment macroeconomic
virtuous cycle of employment, social and regulatory frameworks that promote public
protection, productivity, inclusive growth and private investments, an enabling
and development. environment for sustainable enterprises, skills
development, entrepreneurship and active labour
(d) A long-term vision that spans the life cycle
market policies. The Employment Policy
and promotes personal responsibility,
Convention, 1964 (No. 122), Human Resources
shared responsibility of the tripartite
Development Recommendation, 2004 (No. 195),
partners and solidarity among generations
and Job Creation in Small and Medium-Sized
and population groups.
Enterprises Recommendation, 1998 (No. 189),
189

--- Page 196 ---
Building social protection systems
and other relevant standards provide guiding ■ Improved working conditions and sound
frameworks. occupational safety and health.
13. Serious consideration should be given by ■ Non-discriminatory practices that embrace
member States to the implementation of the diversity and sensitivity in relation to age,
multi-pronged policy portfolio included in the gender and disabilities.
ILO Call for Action on the youth employment ■ Frameworks for work practices conducive
crisis (2012). to improvements in productivity.
14. Well-managed migration policies taking ■ Policies that support innovation.
into account the ILO Multilateral Framework on
20. Skills mismatches and skills shortages
Labour Migration can contribute to mitigating
are a common challenge across countries and
labour and skills shortages, promoting the
development stages. Skills policies are
rights of migrant workers and addressing
therefore an essential part of the policy mix.
challenges such as brain drain.
21. Governments, employers and workers
15. Collective bargaining and minimum wage
should work together to increase lifelong
setting in accordance with national policies
learning opportunities to foster employability
and practices can ensure a fair income
and productivity and to prevent skills
distribution in society, including closing the
obsolescence. Measures could include:
gender pay gap, and improve the contributory
capacity. ■ Upgrading skills in the use of new
technologies.
16. Comprehensive, adequate and sustaina-
ble social security systems should be estab- ■ Removing age limits in access to learning
and training.
lished and maintained. As a matter of priority,
national social protection floors are needed to ■ Providing and viewing training as an
guarantee that all persons have access to ed- integral part of career planning.
ucation, essential health care and basic in- ■ Supporting a conducive environment for
come security. In accordance with the Social learning and development, for example
Protection Floors Recommendation, 2012 through mixed-age teams and mentoring.
(No. 202), higher levels of social security 22. Targeted policies are necessary to
should be progressively ensured to as many increase the labour force participation of
people as possible. vulnerable and/or under-represented groups.
17. The Social Security (Minimum Policies for family support, work–life balance,
Standards) Convention, 1952 (No. 102), and childcare and old-age care facilities, maternity
Social Protection Floors Recommendation, protection, paternity and family responsibility-
2012 (No. 202), as well as other ILO social related leave, flexible working time and home
security standards, provide an international work are possible options. These options can
reference framework for the establishment of also increase overall labour force participation.
comprehensive social security systems that Increasing the labour market participation of
ensure protection throughout the life cycle. older workers is of great importance and can
They also contain principles crucial for benefit from tripartite efforts to agree on
ensuring the sustainability of social security measures and incentives that enable
systems and the adequacy of benefits. employers to provide more jobs for older
18. Labour markets need to function in a way workers and workers to stay in employment
that allows for adjustments to changing until they reach their retirement.
circumstances, recognizing that all parties 23. Policy measures to address the plight of
have legitimate interests. This should occur in workers in the informal economy and to
an enabling framework that provides workers facilitate multiple pathways for transition from
the stability and security to engage positively informal to formal, decent and productive work
in change and provides employers with the are a priority in the new demographic context,
necessary flexibility to be competitive and including by extending social security.
innovative. 24. In many countries, ageing is leading to
19. Policies to increase productivity can increasing pension costs. There is a need to
compensate for shrinking labour forces in ensure the financial, fiscal and economic
ageing societies, and can boost development sustainability of pension systems through
in all countries. Such policies include, among appropriate and well-designed policies,
others: financing mechanisms and enforcement
■ Education, training and lifelong learning. measures. They should be complemented by
access to affordable, quality public health and
■ Social protection, including effective
social services. Policies should strive to
access to public health and social
ensure the adequacy and the predictability of
services.
pensions and a gradual and flexible transition
190

--- Page 197 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
from active working life to retirement through practice can facilitate the introduction of these
measures such as phased-in retirement, part- policies.
time work and job-sharing. 29. Demographic transitions increase
25. In reforming social security pension demand for the care sector. The promotion of
systems, countries often face difficult choices this sector and its long-term sustainability is
among available options but should always essential to protect people and to ensure that
pay attention to the related social outcomes. they live and age in dignity. The care sector
The best choice for each country will take into also presents new opportunities for
account accrued pension-scheme rights, be investment, innovation and job creation. Good
based on inter-generational fairness and management of the sector is necessary to
solidarity and be founded on well-informed ensure the provision of quality care.
consultation, substantive dialogue and shared Professionalization of the delivery of care
responsibility among social partners. For some should be promoted.
countries, the choice might include effective 30. Traditional care systems, which rely
increase of pension age. If so, transitional heavily on female family members to bear the
implications for workers, particularly those main burden of providing care services, are
close to retirement, must be addressed on a under increasing strain. The provision of care
fair basis, respecting workers’ and employers’ requires the recognition of the complementary
interests. When such a reform involves a delay and fundamental roles of family, community
in retirement age, there will be specific and professional care services. Care
concerns and opportunities for employers, structures need to be developed that address
workers and society. Such reforms must the diverse demand for care services.
recognize that some workers or groups of Accreditation and regulation of professional
workers have reduced capacities and life care services should be promoted.
expectancies, notably those who spend their
31. The right of care workers to decent work
lives in arduous or hazardous occupations. It
should be promoted, including by improving
should be a matter of choice for a worker to
working conditions, skills development and
delay retirement. The employment of older
recognition and promoting gender equality.
workers may be beneficial for workers and
32. Through a variety of means, such as the
employers alike. Health and related issues
effective enforcement of tax and contribution
should be addressed.
obligations, including measures to prevent tax
26. Policies to combat discrimination based
evasion, the resources necessary to
on age and practices of diversity and age
effectively implement the policy mix can be
sensitivity are central to human dignity and to
mobilized.
increasing productivity. They could include:
■ Promoting, enforcing and/or enacting IV. TRIPARTISM AND SOCIAL DIALOGUE
employment legislation that combats 33. Social dialogue in all its forms is
discrimination on the basis of age. necessary to finding effective, equitable and
■ Awareness-raising campaigns conducted sustainable answers to demographic
by governments, social partners and the challenges and can offer a key contribution to
media to combat negative attitudes about inclusive, sustainable growth and
older persons and to increase appreciation development. Necessary reform processes
of their value to society. can be best managed through social dialogue
to balance employment, social protection and
■ Enterprise-level initiatives such as
related financial and fiscal requirements.
company-run diversity programmes.
34. Collective bargaining, based on freedom
27. Measures that foster preventive health
of association and mutual trust and respect, is
and safety at the workplace and healthy
an important tool for the development of
lifestyles should be promoted throughout the
specific collective agreements to meet the
life cycle including, but not limited to, the
challenge of demographic change at different
development of occupational safety and health
levels.
legislation with appropriate compliance
mechanisms, and taking into account age-, V. ACTION BY THE OFFICE
gender- and disability-specific health and
35. The ILO has an important role to play in
workplace needs.
providing global leadership and acting as a
28. Policies to provide for flexibility in working centre of excellence on demographic change
time and work organization according to needs and its implications for the world of work. With
specific to age groups, gender and disability, due regard to approved budgets, the Office
while maintaining adequate social security should support actions by governments and
coverage, should be considered. Collective social partners and work with the multilateral
bargaining in accordance with national law and system in the following areas:
191

--- Page 198 ---
Building social protection systems
(a) Technical cooperation, including capacity (viii) Awareness-raising on and promotion
building to support: of the implementation of relevant ILO
(i) Development of integrated national standards.
action plans on demographic change. (ix) Requisite training at different levels.
(ii) Development of labour market infor- (b) Knowledge development, dissemination
mation systems, identification and and follow-up:
forecasting of skills needs and moni- (i) Undertake research and evidence-
toring and evaluation mechanisms. based comparative policy analysis on
(iii) Mainstreaming of responses to the interaction between employment
demographic challenges in all relevant and social protection policies at the
national employment and social micro and macro levels.
protection policies, in particular to (ii) Map and analyse good practices and
implement the ILO Call for Action on facilitate their dissemination.
the youth employment crisis (2012)
(iii) Over the next 12 months, develop a
and the Social Protection Floors
research agenda on the care sector,
Recommendation, 2012 (No. 202).
including an evidence-based analysis
(iv) Strengthening of the capacity of of the potential gaps in current
governments, employers’ and international labour standards for the
workers’ organizations, and social consideration of the Governing Body.
security institutions to better address
(c) Partnerships and advocacy:
demographic challenges and to
(i) Promote, in partnership with the
develop holistic policies, including
relevant global, international and
through social dialogue and tripartism.
regional organizations and institutions,
(v) Strengthening of employment services
the integrated, intergenerational life-
and the delivery of targeted active
cycle approach, notably in the context
labour market policies for young
of the Post2015 Development
people, women, older people and
Agenda.
persons with disabilities.
(ii) Strengthen partnerships with the
(vi) Development of well-managed labour
United Nations and other relevant
migration policies and their implemen-
global, international and regional
tation.
organizations with respect to the
(vii) Facilitation of transitions from the follow-up to the Madrid International
informal economy to formality, taking Plan of Action on Ageing, adopted at
into account the standard-setting the Second World Assembly on
discussions at the International Ageing in April 2002, and its regional
Labour Conference in 2014 and 2015 implementation strategies.
on this matter.
Resolution on Advancing Social Justice through Decent Work, 2016
(the Social Justice Declaration) in 2008, the In-
EVALUATION OF THE IMPACT
ternational Labour Organization and its Mem-
OF THE ILO DECLARATION ON SOCIAL
bers confirmed that their commitment and ef-
JUSTICE FOR A FAIR GLOBALIZATION
forts to implement the ILO’s constitutional
AND CONCLUSIONS FOR FUTURE
mandate and to place full and productive em-
ACTION
ployment and decent work at the centre of eco-
The General Conference of the International nomic and social policies should be based on
Labour Organization, meeting at its 105th Ses- the four inseparable, interrelated and mutually
sion, 2016, supportive strategic objectives of employment,
Having undertaken an evaluation of the impact social protection, social dialogue and tripar-
of the ILO Declaration on Social Justice for a tism, and fundamental principles and rights at
Fair Globalization, adopted in 2008, work, with gender equality and non-discrimina-
Adopts the following resolution. tion also as cross-cutting issues. The Social
Justice Declaration provides an important
I. SIGNIFICANCE OF THE SOCIAL framework for better governance and policy
JUSTICE DECLARATION making.
1. In unanimously adopting the ILO Declara-
tion on Social Justice for a Fair Globalization
192

--- Page 199 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
2. The Social Justice Declaration is more rel- strument to guide future action, including pol-
evant today than ever to address global, re- icy making, by Members individually and in co-
gional and national challenges and to have a operation with each other, and foster owner-
decisive impact on the implementation of the ship by constituents.
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 7. Reforms of the Conference and the Gov-
(2030 Agenda). This evaluation of the Social erning Body have improved the Organization’s
Justice Declaration should: (i) inform the ILO governance, policy-making and oversight
actions in pursuit of its centenary initiatives functions. The ILO is enhancing its work on
leading up to, and beyond, the 100th Anniver- standards policy, notably through the Stand-
sary of the ILO in 2019; (ii) encourage Mem- ards Initiative, and it has implemented a
bers’ endeavours to achieve the full potential scheme of recurrent discussions of each of the
of the Social Justice Declaration; and (iii) guide strategic objectives at the Conference.
the ILO and its Members in responding to the
8. However, recurrent discussions need to
urgent call for a full and active role in the 2030
be improved to achieve a better understanding
Agenda.
of the diverse realities and needs of Members
II. IMPACT OF THE SOCIAL JUSTICE and to realize their value as a tool for as-
DECLARATION sessing implementation of the Social Justice
Declaration and for informing future action. In
3. Decent work is now widely recognized as
addition, there has been limited progress in es-
a global goal. The Social Justice Declaration
tablishing and making use of appropriate indi-
has served as a reference point for Members
cators to monitor progress towards decent
and as an organizing framework for the ILO to
work.
provide support to its Members. It has under-
pinned a continued commitment of the ILO to 9. Decent Work Country Programmes have
reform in order to better support its Members. proven a useful tool and more Members
It offers a framework for effective action and should be encouraged to adopt them. How-
policy coherence, coordination and collabora- ever, more needs to be done to make them
tion for decent work between the ILO and rel- better focused, prioritized and grounded in the
evant national, regional and international insti- specific realities and challenges faced by
tutions. Members. All Decent Work Country Pro-
grammes should be determined and owned by
4. Members have fully endorsed the Social
constituents; reflect their diverse national
Justice Declaration and taken various steps to
needs and priorities; and include balanced
promote decent work both individually and in
strategies integrating all four strategic objec-
cooperation with each other, including through
tives and gender equality and non-discrimina-
development partnerships. A growing number
tion also as cross-cutting issues.
of member States have adopted Decent Work
Country Programmes. 10. A number of steps have been taken to
translate the integrated approach into the work
5. The Social Justice Declaration informed
of the Office. Progress has been made to en-
the Global Jobs Pact (2009), which remains a
hance evidence-based research and policy
useful policy framework for addressing the so-
analysis to assist Members in pursuing the
cial and employment impact of the recent eco-
aims of the Social Justice Declaration in their
nomic and financial crisis. Through the follow-
specific national circumstances.
up to the Social Justice Declaration, the Con-
ference has adopted the Social Protection 11. The Social Justice Declaration has
Floors Recommendation, 2012 (No. 202), the helped to increase policy coherence, coordina-
Protocol of 2014 to the Forced Labour Con- tion and collaboration among the ILO, other
vention, 1930, and the Transition from the In- United Nations agencies and the multilateral
formal to the Formal Economy Recommenda- economic institutions, but challenges remain.
tion, 2015 (No. 204). The promotion of the Decent Work Agenda
within international and regional institutions
6. At the same time, achieving policy coher-
needs to be furthered through institutional part-
ence in implementing the Decent Work
nerships and collaboration mechanisms. Col-
Agenda is still a challenge in many parts of the
laboration with international and regional or-
world. Members have faced complex choices
ganizations and other actors should be im-
in prioritizing their efforts to advance decent
proved in order to foster comprehensive and
work in an integrated way. More work is
coordinated policies and strategies to promote
needed to improve the implementation and rat-
all the strategic objectives and to leverage their
ification of standards, facilitate the transition
contribution to decent work. Translating high
from the informal to the formal economy, raise
level commitments effectively into policies and
awareness and promote a better understand-
programmes at the regional and country level
ing of the Social Justice Declaration as an in-
continues to be a challenge.
193

--- Page 200 ---
Building social protection systems
III. PRIORITY AREAS FOR ACTION B. ILO action to effectively assist
its Members
A. Principles and policies to achieve
15. In order to effectively assist its Members
the full potential of the Social Justice
in their efforts to achieve the full potential of the
Declaration
Social Justice Declaration, the Conference
12. Further concrete action is needed to
calls upon the ILO to make the best use of all
achieve the full potential of the Social Justice
its means of action to:
Declaration, with due attention to advancing
decent work in the framework of the implemen- 15.1. Standards system
tation of the 2030 Agenda, in particular by in- Ensure that there are appropriate and effective
tegrating decent work into national sustainable linkages between the recurrent discussions
development strategies. and the outcomes of the Standards Initiative,
13. In the changing world of work, given the including exploring options for making better
rapidity of technological, societal, demo- use of article 19, paragraphs 5(e) and 6(d), of
graphic, economic and environmental the ILO Constitution, without increasing the re-
changes, Members’ efforts to reach the insep- porting obligations of member States.
arable, interrelated and mutually supportive
15.2. Recurrent discussions
strategic objectives of decent work should be
based on the urgent need to promote: (a) Adopt appropriate modalities to better
focus recurrent discussions and ensure
(a) employment by creating an enabling
that they are grounded in current realities
institutional and economic environment for
and challenges so as to:
productive, profitable and sustainable
enterprises, together with a strong social (i) deliver a regularly updated review of
economy and a viable public sector, to Members’ diverse needs and realities
foster inclusive growth, employment and with respect to each strategic objec-
income opportunities; tive;
(b) social protection – social security and (ii) assess the results of the ILO’s activi-
labour protection – to ensure a just share ties in respect of the strategic objec-
of the fruits of progress for all; tives to facilitate decision making on
future priorities; and
(c) social dialogue and tripartism as crucial
means for the effective achievement of the (iii) inform ILO strategic planning and pro-
four strategic objectives at national, gramme and budget discussions.
regional and international levels; (b) Adopt modalities to ensure that general
(d) the universal and immutable fundamental surveys and the related discussion by the
principles and rights at work and their Committee on the Application of
particular significance both as rights and Standards contribute to the recurrent
enabling conditions, in particular freedom discussions as appropriate.
of association and collective bargaining; (c) Examine the possibility of a shorter cycle
(e) gender equality and non-discrimination of recurrent discussions of each of the four
also as cross-cutting issues in the four strategic objectives, taking into account
strategic objectives; the:
(f) greater ownership, policy coherence and (i) specific requirements pertaining to the
complementarity of national, regional and examination of each strategic objec-
international approaches to the full tive;
implementation of the Social Justice (ii) two-year programme and budget cycle
Declaration and the 2030 Agenda; and and the four-year strategic plan;
(g) cooperation among Members, as well as (iii) contribution of the recurrent discus-
between Members and international sions to the streamlining of the pro-
organizations, on sharing national and cess of setting the Conference
regional good practices gained from the agenda;
successful implementation of initiatives (iv) past practice of separately addressing
with a decent work element. labour protection and social security
14. In order to reach the full potential of the on the Conference agenda;
Social Justice Declaration, the implementation (v) possible grouping of strategic objec-
of the four strategic objectives should be tives when placed on the Conference
adapted to the specific needs and circum- agenda;
stances of each country, and subject to its ex-
(vi) timing of the next evaluation of the im-
isting international obligations and the funda-
pact of the Social Justice Declaration;
mental principles and rights at work.
and
194

--- Page 201 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
(vii) ILO’s contribution to the follow-up and Social Justice Declaration, and measure
review by the United Nations of the im- and monitor the results of such capacity
plementation of the 2030 Agenda. development efforts in a systematic and
coherent manner.
15.3. Strengthening the results-based
(c) Strengthen and streamline its
framework and Decent Work
development cooperation and expert
Country Programmes
advice to support and assist efforts by
(a) Develop the Strategic Plan for 2018–21
Members to make progress on a tripartite
based on the integrated approach to
basis towards all the strategic objectives.
decent work covering all four strategic
objectives and the cross-cutting issues. Its 15.5. Research, information collection
implementation should be based on and sharing
constituents’ priorities and specific needs, (a) Continue to strengthen its policy-oriented
make the best use of all the ILO’s means and evidence-based research, taking into
of action and support the capacity account the needs of ILO’s constituents, to
development of constituents. support informed policy dialogue, with
(b) Review the programme and budget results particular attention to the challenges and
framework, including indicators and the opportunities associated with trends and
reporting on outcomes, good practices drivers transforming the world of work.
and lessons learned, to allow the ILO to (b) Strengthen the knowledge base to
assess results and to demonstrate to its improve understanding of the contribution
constituents how its work has contributed of the integrated approach to decent work
to the realization of the four strategic for sustainable development.
objectives.
(c) Further enhance Members’ capacity to
(c) Strengthen the ILO’s evaluation and insti- produce, use and share statistics and
tutional learning in order to demonstrate information covering all four strategic
impact and improve delivery to constitu- objectives, as well as gender equality and
ents. non-discrimination as cross-cutting issues,
(d) Ensure that all Decent Work Country and information on best practices,
Programmes comprise integrated and including through voluntary national peer
balanced strategies to promote all the reviews.
strategic objectives and the cross-cutting (d) Further develop, through the Governing
issues in a set of priorities identified by Body, a framework for decent work
national tripartite constituents; contain indicators that allows Members to
measurable, realistic and achievable measure their progress towards decent
outcomes; and should have tripartite work according to their national needs and
steering committees or similar fora to circumstances.
ensure ownership and increase impact.
(e) Assist Members’ efforts to use decent
(e) Support Members to better align Decent work indicators that are appropriate to
Work Country Programmes with national national needs and circumstances in order
and, where appropriate, regional sustaina- to monitor and evaluate progress made.
ble development strategies that integrate
the 2030 Agenda and its decent work com- 15.6. Partnerships and policy coherence
ponents, as well as with United Nations for decent work
planning frameworks at the country or, (a) Develop a strategy for promoting decent
where appropriate, regional level. work through partnerships and policy co-
herence based on the principles of com-
15.4. Institutional capacity building
plementarity and mutual reinforcement
(a) Further strengthen the institutional capac- with relevant international, regional and
ity of member States and representative national organizations that have mandates
organizations of employers and workers in closely related fields. In all such partner-
according to their needs, to pursue rele- ships the ILO should promote understand-
vant, effective and coherent social policy ing and recognition of its values, mandate
for decent work and sustainable develop- and standards.
ment.
(b) Include in such a strategy a special focus
(b) Strengthen the awareness, understanding on promoting inclusive growth and decent
and capacity of constituents – including work at the country level with international
through the International Training Centre and regional economic and financial
of the ILO in Turin, regional and online institutions.
programmes – to achieve the aims of the
195

--- Page 202 ---
Building social protection systems
(c) Strengthen the ILO’s capacity and that of the 2030 Agenda and its complementarity
its constituents to contribute to the with the ILO Development Cooperation
achievement of decent work and related Strategy.
goals of the 2030 Agenda at the national, (j) Attract additional resources for the
regional and international levels, based on implementation of the Social Justice
the integrated approach of the Social Declaration, further diversify funding
Justice Declaration. sources, promote South–South and
(d) Foster policy coherence by offering evi- triangular cooperation, and enhance the
dence-based policy advice and closely integrated pursuit of the four strategic
working with relevant government minis- objectives through larger development
tries and departments, and by facilitating projects and programmes.
the participation of the tripartite constitu-
C. Action by member States
ents in national sustainable development
strategies and related United Nations 16. The Conference calls upon member
planning frameworks. States to take appropriate action in the context
of national circumstances to:
(e) Lead or engage in alliances related to
Goal 8 (Note 1: Promote sustained, (a) mainstream the Decent Work Agenda in
inclusive and sustainable economic the implementation of the 2030 Agenda,
growth, full and productive employment including in national and regional strate-
and decent work for all.) as well as other gies for sustainable development;
decent work-related goals of the 2030 (b) step up action with a view to achieving
Agenda with the involvement of the progressively the ratification and
tripartite partners consistent with the implementation of the fundamental and
resolution concerning tripartism and social governance Conventions;
dialogue (2002), and within the framework (c) promote policy coherence across
of the Social Justice Declaration. ministries and integrate decent work into
(f) Contribute to the follow-up and review national policies. These efforts could
framework of the 2030 Agenda through in- include, where appropriate, effective
puts concerning decent work trends and consultations among concerned ministries
indicators to national, regional and global and with social partners; and
reports that will feed into the annual re- (d) promote sustainable enterprises.
views by the United Nations High-Level
Political Forum on Sustainable Develop- IV. FOLLOW-UP BY THE GOVERNING
ment. BODY AND THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF
(g) In the context of the Enterprises Initiative, THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE
and welcoming the recent growth in ILO 17. The Conference invites the Governing
public–private partnerships, further de- Body of the International Labour Office to:
velop its engagement with the private sec- (a) determine appropriate modalities to inte-
tor, taking into account the guidance pro- grate the outcome of the present evalua-
vided by the Governing Body at its 326th tion into the work of the Governing Body
Session (March 2016) as well as the Con- and the programme of work of the Interna-
ference Conclusions concerning the pro- tional Labour Office;
motion of sustainable enterprises (2007),
(b) consider the possibility of convening a
the Tripartite Declaration of Principles con-
high-level tripartite exchange on the role of
cerning Multinational Enterprises and So-
decent work in the 2030 Agenda and the
cial Policy (1977), the Transition from the
ILO’s leadership on decent work related
Informal to the Formal Economy Recom-
goals;
mendation, 2015 (No. 204), and the Con-
(c) request the Director-General of the
ference Conclusions concerning small and
International Labour Office to:
medium-sized enterprises and decent
work and productive employment creation (i) take into account the outcome of the
(2015). present evaluation in the proposal for
the Strategic Plan for 2018–21;
(h) Promote strategic partnerships with
relevant non-state actors consistent with (ii) submit to the Governing Body, in No-
the principles of tripartism and social vember 2016, detailed proposals relat-
dialogue. ing to the modalities of recurrent dis-
cussions as outlined in subpara-
(i) Promote the implementation of Goal 17
graph 15.2, with a view to better meet-
(Note 2: Strengthen the means of imple-
ing their objectives and to ensure a
mentation and revitalize the global part-
nership for sustainable development.) of
196

--- Page 203 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
prompt transition from the current cy- July 2016, and to relevant interna-
cle of recurrent discussions to the next tional and regional organizations and
cycle; fora, the elements of the present reso-
(iii) submit to the Governing Body, in lution that are of particular relevance
March 2017, proposals for a pro- for the implementation of the compo-
gramme of work to give effect to the nents of the 2030 Agenda relating to
outcome of the present evaluation, in- the achievement of decent work.
cluding specific deadlines and appro- 18. The Conference decides that the action
priate measurable targets and indica- outlined in the present resolution will form an
tors; and integral part of the next evaluation of the im-
(iv) communicate to the United Nations pact of the Social Justice Declaration to be un-
High-Level Political Forum on Sustain- dertaken by the Conference.
able Development, at its meeting in
ILO Centenary Declaration for the Future of Work, International Labour
Conference, 108th Session, 2019
The International Labour Conference, meeting Recognizing that social dialogue contributes to
in Geneva at its One Hundred and Eighth Ses- the overall cohesion of societies and is crucial
sion on the occasion of the Centenary of the for a well-functioning and productive economy;
International Labour Organization (ILO), Recognizing also the importance of the role of
Considering that the experience of the past sustainable enterprises as generators of em-
century has confirmed that the continuous and ployment and promoters of innovation and de-
concerted action of governments and repre- cent work;
sentatives of employers and workers is essen- Reaffirming that labour is not a commodity;
tial to the achievement of social justice, de-
Committing to a world of work free from vio-
mocracy and the promotion of universal and
lence and harassment;
lasting peace;
Underlining also the significance of promoting
Acknowledging that such action has brought
multilateralism, particularly in shaping the fu-
historic advances in economic and social pro-
ture of work that we want and in dealing with
gress that have resulted in more humane con-
the challenges of the world of work;
ditions of work;
Calling upon all constituents of the ILO to reaf-
Considering also that persistent poverty, ine-
firm their unwavering commitment and to rein-
qualities and injustices, conflict, disasters and
vigorate their efforts to achieve social justice
other humanitarian emergencies in many parts
and universal and lasting peace to which they
of the world constitute a threat to those ad-
agreed in 1919 and 1944; and
vances and to securing shared prosperity and
Desiring to democratize ILO governance by
decent work for all;
ensuring a fair representation of all regions
Recalling and reaffirming the aims, purposes,
and establishing the principle of equality
principles and mandate set out in the ILO Con-
among member States,
stitution and the Declaration of Philadelphia
Adopts this twenty-first day of June of the year
(1944);
two thousand and nineteen the ILO Centenary
Underlining the importance of the ILO Decla-
Declaration for the Future of Work.
ration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at
Work (1998) and the ILO Declaration on Social I
Justice for a Fair Globalization (2008); The Conference declares that:
Moved by the imperative of social justice that A. The ILO marks its Centenary at a time of
gave birth to the ILO one hundred years ago, transformative change in the world of work,
and the conviction that it lies within the reach driven by technological innovations, demo-
of the governments, employers and workers of graphic shifts, environmental and climate
the world to reinvigorate the Organization and change, and globalization, as well as at a time
shape a future of work that realizes its found- of persistent inequalities, which have profound
ing vision; impacts on the nature and future of work, and
on the place and dignity of people in it.
197

--- Page 204 ---
Building social protection systems
B. It is imperative to act with urgency to seize (iv) developing effective policies aimed at gen-
the opportunities and address the challenges erating full, productive and freely chosen
to shape a fair, inclusive and secure future of employment and decent work opportuni-
work with full, productive and freely chosen ties for all, and in particular facilitating the
employment and decent work for all. transition from education and training to
C. Such a future of work is fundamental for work, with an emphasis on the effective in-
sustainable development that puts an end to tegration of young people into the world of
poverty and leaves no one behind. work;
D. The ILO must carry forward into its second (v) supporting measures that help older
century with unrelenting vigour its constitu- workers to expand their choices,
tional mandate for social justice by further de- optimizing their opportunities to work in
veloping its human-centred approach to the fu- good-quality, productive and healthy
ture of work, which puts workers’ rights and the conditions until their retirement, and to
needs, aspirations and rights of all people at enable active ageing;
the heart of economic, social and environmen- (vi) promoting workers’ rights as a key element
tal policies. for the attainment of inclusive and
E. The growth of the Organization over the sustainable growth, with a focus on
past 100 years towards universal membership freedom of association and the effective
means that social justice can be achieved in all recognition of the right to collective
regions of the world and that the full contribu- bargaining as enabling rights;
tion of the ILO’s constituents to this endeavour (vii) achieving gender equality at work through
can be assured only through their full, equal a transformative agenda, with regular
and democratic participation in its tripartite evaluation of progress made, which:
governance. – ensures equal opportunities, equal
participation and equal treatment, in-
II
cluding equal remuneration for women
The Conference declares that:
and men for work of equal value;
A. In discharging its constitutional mandate,
– enables a more balanced sharing of
taking into account the profound transfor-
family responsibilities;
mations in the world of work, and further devel-
– provides scope for achieving better
oping its human-centred approach to the future
work–life balance by enabling workers
of work, the ILO must direct its efforts to:
and employers to agree on solutions,
(i) ensuring a just transition to a future of work
including on working time, that con-
that contributes to sustainable develop-
sider their respective needs and bene-
ment in its economic, social and environ-
fits; and
mental dimensions;
– promotes investment in the care econ-
(ii) harnessing the fullest potential of techno-
omy;
logical progress and productivity growth,
(viii) ensuring equal opportunities and treat-
including through social dialogue, to
ment in the world of work for persons with
achieve decent work and sustainable de-
disabilities, as well as for other persons in
velopment, which ensure dignity, self-fulfil-
vulnerable situations;
ment and a just sharing of the benefits for
all; (ix) supporting the role of the private sector as
a principal source of economic growth and
(iii) promoting the acquisition of skills, compe-
job creation by promoting an enabling en-
tencies and qualifications for all workers
vironment for entrepreneurship and sus-
throughout their working lives as a joint re-
tainable enterprises, in particular micro,
sponsibility of governments and social
small and medium-sized enterprises, as
partners in order to:
well as cooperatives and the social and
– address existing and anticipated skills
solidarity economy, in order to generate
gaps;
decent work, productive employment and
– pay particular attention to ensuring improved living standards for all;
that education and training systems
(x) supporting the role of the public sector as
are responsive to labour market
a significant employer and provider of
needs, taking into account the evolu-
quality public services;
tion of work; and
(xi) strengthening labour administration and
– enhance workers’ capacity to make
inspection;
use of the opportunities available for
(xii) ensuring that diverse forms of work ar-
decent work;
rangements, production and business
models, including in domestic and global
198

--- Page 205 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
supply chains, leverage opportunities for (i) the effective realization of gender equality
social and economic progress, provide for in opportunities and treatment;
decent work and are conducive to full, pro- (ii) effective lifelong learning and quality edu-
ductive and freely chosen employment; cation for all;
(xiii) eradicating forced and child labour and (iii) universal access to comprehensive and
promoting decent work for all and fostering sustainable social protection; and
cross-border cooperation, including in ar-
(iv) effective measures to support people
eas or sectors of high international integra-
through the transitions they will face
tion;
throughout their working lives.
(xiv) promoting the transition from the informal
B. Strengthening the institutions of work to
to the formal economy, while giving due at-
ensure adequate protection of all workers, and
tention to rural areas;
reaffirming the continued relevance of the em-
(xv) developing and enhancing social protec- ployment relationship as a means of providing
tion systems, which are adequate, sustain- certainty and legal protection to workers, while
able and adapted to developments in the recognizing the extent of informality and the
world of work; need to ensure effective action to achieve tran-
(xvi) deepening and scaling up its work on in- sition to formality. All workers should enjoy ad-
ternational labour migration in response to equate protection in accordance with the De-
constituents’ needs and taking a leader- cent Work Agenda, taking into account:
ship role in decent work in labour migra- (i) respect for their fundamental rights;
tion; and
(ii) an adequate minimum wage, statutory or
(xvii) intensifying engagement and cooperation negotiated;
within the multilateral system with a view
(iii) maximum limits on working time; and
to strengthening policy coherence, in line
(iv) safety and health at work.
with the recognition that:
C. Promoting sustained, inclusive and sus-
– decent work is key to sustainable de-
tainable economic growth, full and productive
velopment, addressing income ine-
employment and decent work for all through:
quality and ending poverty, paying
special attention to areas affected by (i) macroeconomic policies that have those
conflict, disaster and other humanitar- aims as their central objective;
ian emergencies; and (ii) trade, industrial and sectoral policies that
– in conditions of globalization, the fail- promote decent work, and enhance
ure of any country to adopt humane productivity;
conditions of labour is more than ever (iii) investment in infrastructure and in strate-
an obstacle to progress in all other gic sectors to address the drivers of trans-
countries. formative change in the world of work;
B. Social dialogue, including collective bar- (iv) policies and incentives that promote sus-
gaining and tripartite cooperation, provides an tainable and inclusive economic growth,
essential foundation of all ILO action and con- the creation and development of sustaina-
tributes to successful policy and decision-mak- ble enterprises, innovation, and the transi-
ing in its member States. tion from the informal to the formal econ-
C. Effective workplace cooperation is a tool to omy, and that promote the alignment of
help ensure safe and productive workplaces, business practices with the objectives of
in such a way that it respects collective bar- this Declaration; and
gaining and its outcomes, and does not under- (v) policies and measures that ensure appro-
mine the role of trade unions. priate privacy and personal data protec-
D. Safe and healthy working conditions are tion, and respond to challenges and oppor-
fundamental to decent work. tunities in the world of work relating to the
digital transformation of work, including
III platform work.
The Conference calls upon all Members, tak-
IV
ing into account national circumstances, to
work individually and collectively, on the basis The Conference declares that:
of tripartism and social dialogue, and with the A. The setting, promotion, ratification and
support of the ILO, to further develop its hu- supervision of international labour standards is
man-centred approach to the future of work by: of fundamental importance to the ILO. This
A. Strengthening the capacities of all people requires the Organization to have and promote
to benefit from the opportunities of a changing a clear, robust, up-to-date body of international
world of work through: labour standards and to further enhance
199

--- Page 206 ---
Building social protection systems
transparency. International labour standards consistent with its mandate and based on a
also need to respond to the changing patterns thorough understanding of, and attention to,
of the world of work, protect workers and take their diverse circumstances, needs, priorities
into account the needs of sustainable and levels of development, including through
enterprises, and be subject to authoritative and expanded South–South and triangular cooper-
effective supervision. The ILO will assist its ation.
Members in the ratification and effective E. The ILO should maintain the highest levels
application of standards. of statistical, research and knowledge man-
B. All Members should work towards the rati- agement capacities and expertise in order to
fication and implementation of the ILO funda- further strengthen the quality of its evidence-
mental Conventions and periodically consider, based policy advice.
in consultation with employers’ and workers’ F. On the basis of its constitutional mandate,
organizations, the ratification of other ILO the ILO must take an important role in the mul-
standards. tilateral system, by reinforcing its cooperation
C. It is incumbent on the ILO to strengthen and developing institutional arrangements with
the capacity of its tripartite constituents to: other organizations to promote policy coher-
(i) encourage the development of strong and ence in pursuit of its human-centred approach
representative social partner organiza- to the future of work, recognizing the strong,
tions; complex and crucial links between social,
trade, financial, economic and environmental
(ii) engage in all relevant processes, including
policies.
with labour market institutions, programmes
and policies, within and across borders; and The foregoing is the ILO Centenary Declara-
tion for the Future of Work, duly adopted by the
(iii) address all fundamental principles and
General Conference of the International La-
rights at work, at all levels, as appropriate,
bour Organization during its One Hundred and
through strong, influential and inclusive
Eighth (Centenary) Session which was held at
mechanisms of social dialogue,
Geneva and declared closed on 21 June 2019.
in the conviction that such representation and
IN FAITH WHEREOF we have appended our
dialogue contribute to the overall cohesion of
signatures this twenty-first day of June 2019:
societies and are a matter of public interest,
and are crucial for a well functioning and pro- The President of the Conference,
ductive economy. JEAN-JACQUES ELMIGER
D. The services that the ILO offers to its
The Director-General of
member States and social partners, notably
the International Labour Office,
through development cooperation, must be
GUY RYDER
200

--- Page 207 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Relevant international human rights instruments
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1948
Adopted and proclaimed by General Assembly proclaims
resolution 217 A (III) of 10 December 1948. this Universal Declaration Of Human
On December 10, 1948 the General Assembly Rights
of the United Nations adopted and proclaimed as a common standard of achievement for all
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights the peoples and all nations, to the end that every
full text of which appears in the following individual and every organ of society, keeping
pages. Following this historic act the Assembly this Declaration constantly in mind, shall strive
called upon all Member countries to publicize by teaching and education to promote respect
the text of the Declaration and “to cause it to for these rights and freedoms and by
be disseminated, displayed, read and progressive measures, national and
expounded principally in schools and other international, to secure their universal and
educational institutions, without distinction effective recognition and observance, both
based on the political status of countries or among the peoples of Member States
territories.” themselves and among the peoples of
territories under their jurisdiction.
Preamble
Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity Article 1
and of the equal and inalienable rights of all All human beings are born free and equal in
members of the human family is the foundation dignity and rights. They are endowed with
of freedom, justice and peace in the world, reason and conscience and should act
Whereas disregard and contempt for human towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.
rights have resulted in barbarous acts which
Article 2
have outraged the conscience of mankind, and
the advent of a world in which human beings Everyone is entitled to all the rights and
shall enjoy freedom of speech and belief and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without
freedom from fear and want has been distinction of any kind, such as race, colour,
proclaimed as the highest aspiration of the sex, language, religion, political or other
common people, opinion, national or social origin, property, birth
or other status. Furthermore, no distinction
Whereas it is essential, if man is not to be
shall be made on the basis of the political,
compelled to have recourse, as a last resort,
jurisdictional or international status of the
to rebellion against tyranny and oppression,
country or territory to which a person belongs,
that human rights should be protected by the
whether it be independent, trust, non-self-
rule of law,
governing or under any other limitation of
Whereas it is essential to promote the
sovereignty.
development of friendly relations between
nations, Article 3
Whereas the peoples of the United Nations Everyone has the right to life, liberty and
have in the Charter reaffirmed their faith in security of person.
fundamental human rights, in the dignity and
worth of the human person and in the equal Article 4
rights of men and women and have No one shall be held in slavery or servitude;
determined to promote social progress and slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited
better standards of life in larger freedom, in all their forms.
Whereas Member States have pledged Article 5
themselves to achieve, in co-operation with the No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel,
United Nations, the promotion of universal inhuman or degrading treatment or
respect for and observance of human rights punishment.
and fundamental freedoms,
Article 6
Whereas a common understanding of these
rights and freedoms is of the greatest im- Everyone has the right to recognition
portance for the full realization of this pledge, everywhere as a person before the law.
Now, therefore The General Assembly
201

--- Page 208 ---
Building social protection systems
Article 7 political crimes or from acts contrary to the
All are equal before the law and are entitled purposes and principles of the United Nations.
without any discrimination to equal protection
Article 15
of the law. All are entitled to equal protection
(1) Everyone has the right to a nationality.
against any discrimination in violation of this
Declaration and against any incitement to such (2) No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his
discrimination. nationality nor denied the right to change his
nationality.
Article 8
Article 16
Everyone has the right to an effective remedy
by the competent national tribunals for acts (1) Men and women of full age, without any
violating the fundamental rights granted him by limitation due to race, nationality or religion,
the constitution or by law. have the right to marry and to found a family.
They are entitled to equal rights as to
Article 9 marriage, during marriage and at its
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, dissolution.
detention or exile. (2) Marriage shall be entered into only with
the free and full consent of the intending
Article 10
spouses.
Everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and
(3) The family is the natural and fundamental
public hearing by an independent and impartial
group unit of society and is entitled to
tribunal, in the determination of his rights and
protection by society and the State.
obligations and of any criminal charge against
him. Article 17
Article 11 (1) Everyone has the right to own property
alone as well as in association with others.
(1) Everyone charged with a penal offence
has the right to be presumed innocent until (2) No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his
proved guilty according to law in a public trial property.
at which he has had all the guarantees
Article 18
necessary for his defence.
Everyone has the right to freedom of thought,
(2) No one shall be held guilty of any penal
conscience and religion; this right includes
offence on account of any act or omission
freedom to change his religion or belief, and
which did not constitute a penal offence, under
freedom, either alone or in community with
national or international law, at the time when
others and in public or private, to manifest his
it was committed. Nor shall a heavier penalty
religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship
be imposed than the one that was applicable
and observance.
at the time the penal offence was committed.
Article 19
Article 12
Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary
and expression; this right includes freedom to
interference with his privacy, family, home or
hold opinions without interference and to seek,
correspondence, nor to attacks upon his
receive and impart information and ideas
honour and reputation. Everyone has the right
through any media and regardless of frontiers.
to the protection of the law against such
interference or attacks. Article 20
(1) Everyone has the right to freedom of
Article 13
peaceful assembly and association.
(1) Everyone has the right to freedom of
(2) No one may be compelled to belong to an
movement and residence within the borders of
association.
each state.
(2) Everyone has the right to leave any Article 21
country, including his own, and to return to his (1) Everyone has the right to take part in the
country. government of his country, directly or through
freely chosen representatives.
Article 14
(2) Everyone has the right of equal access to
(1) Everyone has the right to seek and to
public service in his country.
enjoy in other countries asylum from
persecution. (3) The will of the people shall be the basis
of the authority of government; this will shall be
(2) This right may not be invoked in the case
expressed in periodic and genuine elections
of prosecutions genuinely arising from non-
which shall be by universal and equal suffrage
202

--- Page 209 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
and shall be held by secret vote or by made generally available and higher education
equivalent free voting procedures. shall be equally accessible to all on the basis
of merit.
Article 22
(2) Education shall be directed to the full
Everyone, as a member of society, has the
development of the human personality and to
right to social security and is entitled to
the strengthening of respect for human rights
realization, through national effort and
and fundamental freedoms. It shall promote
international co-operation and in accordance
understanding, tolerance and friendship
with the organization and resources of each
among all nations, racial or religious groups,
State, of the economic, social and cultural
and shall further the activities of the United
rights indispensable for his dignity and the free
Nations for the maintenance of peace.
development of his personality.
(3) Parents have a prior right to choose the
Article 23 kind of education that shall be given to their
(1) Everyone has the right to work, to free children.
choice of employment, to just and favourable
Article 27
conditions of work and to protection against
(1) Everyone has the right freely to
unemployment.
participate in the cultural life of the community,
(2) Everyone, without any discrimination, has
to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific
the right to equal pay for equal work.
advancement and its benefits.
(3) Everyone who works has the right to just
(2) Everyone has the right to the protection
and favourable remuneration ensuring for
of the moral and material interests resulting
himself and his family an existence worthy of
from any scientific, literary or artistic
human dignity, and supplemented, if
production of which he is the author.
necessary, by other means of social
protection. Article 28
(4) Everyone has the right to form and to join Everyone is entitled to a social and
trade unions for the protection of his interests. international order in which the rights and
freedoms set forth in this Declaration can be
Article 24
fully realized.
Everyone has the right to rest and leisure,
including reasonable limitation of working Article 29
hours and periodic holidays with pay. (1) Everyone has duties to the community in
which alone the free and full development of
Article 25
his personality is possible.
(1) Everyone has the right to a standard of
(2) In the exercise of his rights and freedoms,
living adequate for the health and well-being of
everyone shall be subject only to such
himself and of his family, including food,
limitations as are determined by law solely for
clothing, housing and medical care and
the purpose of securing due recognition and
necessary social services, and the right to
respect for the rights and freedoms of others
security in the event of unemployment,
and of meeting the just requirements of
sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or
morality, public order and the general welfare
other lack of livelihood in circumstances
in a democratic society.
beyond his control.
(3) These rights and freedoms may in no
(2) Motherhood and childhood are entitled to
case be exercised contrary to the purposes
special care and assistance. All children,
and principles of the United Nations.
whether born in or out of wedlock, shall enjoy
the same social protection. Article 30
Article 26 Nothing in this Declaration may be interpreted
(1) Everyone has the right to education. as implying for any State, group or person any
Education shall be free, at least in the right to engage in any activity or to perform any
elementary and fundamental stages. act aimed at the destruction of any of the rights
Elementary education shall be compulsory. and freedoms set forth herein.
Technical and professional education shall be
203

--- Page 210 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, 1966
Adopted and opened for signature, ratification determination, and shall respect that right, in
and accession by General Assembly conformity with the provisions of the Charter of
resolution 2200A (XXI) of 16 December 1966, the United Nations.
entry into force 3 January 1976, in accordance
PART II
with article 27.
Article 2
Preamble 1. Each State Party to the present Covenant
The States Parties to the present Covenant, undertakes to take steps, individually and
Considering that, in accordance with the through international assistance and co-
principles proclaimed in the Charter of the operation, especially economic and technical,
United Nations, recognition of the inherent to the maximum of its available resources, with
dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights a view to achieving progressively the full
of all members of the human family is the realization of the rights recognized in the
foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the present Covenant by all appropriate means,
world, including particularly the adoption of legislative
measures.
Recognizing that these rights derive from the
inherent dignity of the human person, 2. The States Parties to the present
Covenant undertake to guarantee that the
Recognizing that, in accordance with the
rights enunciated in the present Covenant will
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the
be exercised without discrimination of any kind
ideal of free human beings enjoying freedom
as to race, colour, sex, language, religion,
from fear and want can only be achieved if
political or other opinion, national or social
conditions are created whereby everyone may
origin, property, birth or other status.
enjoy his economic, social and cultural rights,
as well as his civil and political rights, 3. Developing countries, with due regard to
human rights and their national economy, may
Considering the obligation of States under the
determine to what extent they would guarantee
Charter of the United Nations to promote
the economic rights recognized in the present
universal respect for, and observance of,
Covenant to non-nationals.
human rights and freedoms,
Realizing that the individual, having duties to Article 3
other individuals and to the community to The States Parties to the present Covenant
which he belongs, is under a responsibility to undertake to ensure the equal right of men and
strive for the promotion and observance of the women to the enjoyment of all economic,
rights recognized in the present Covenant, social and cultural rights set forth in the
Agree upon the following articles: present Covenant.
PART I Article 4
Article 1 The States Parties to the present Covenant
1. All peoples have the right of self- recognize that, in the enjoyment of those rights
determination. By virtue of that right they freely provided by the State in conformity with the
determine their political status and freely present Covenant, the State may subject such
pursue their economic, social and cultural rights only to such limitations as are
development. determined by law only in so far as this may be
compatible with the nature of these rights and
2. All peoples may, for their own ends, freely
solely for the purpose of promoting the general
dispose of their natural wealth and resources
welfare in a democratic society.
without prejudice to any obligations arising out
of international economic co-operation, based Article 5
upon the principle of mutual benefit, and
1. Nothing in the present Covenant may be
international law. In no case may a people be
interpreted as implying for any State, group or
deprived of its own means of subsistence.
person any right to engage in any activity or to
3. The States Parties to the present perform any act aimed at the destruction of any
Covenant, including those having of the rights or freedoms recognized herein, or
responsibility for the administration of Non- at their limitation to a greater extent than is
Self-Governing and Trust Territories, shall provided for in the present Covenant.
promote the realization of the right of self-
204

--- Page 211 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
2. No restriction upon or derogation from any concerned, for the promotion and
of the fundamental human rights recognized or protection of his economic and social
existing in any country in virtue of law, interests. No restrictions may be placed on
conventions, regulations or custom shall be the exercise of this right other than those
admitted on the pretext that the present prescribed by law and which are
Covenant does not recognize such rights or necessary in a democratic society in the
that it recognizes them to a lesser extent. interests of national security or public
order or for the protection of the rights and
PART III
freedoms of others;
Article 6
(b) The right of trade unions to establish
1. The States Parties to the present national federations or confederations and
Covenant recognize the right to work, which the right of the latter to form or join
includes the right of everyone to the international trade-union organizations;
opportunity to gain his living by work which he
(c) The right of trade unions to function freely
freely chooses or accepts, and will take
subject to no limitations other than those
appropriate steps to safeguard this right.
prescribed by law and which are
2. The steps to be taken by a State Party to necessary in a democratic society in the
the present Covenant to achieve the full interests of national security or public
realization of this right shall include technical order or for the protection of the rights and
and vocational guidance and training freedoms of others;
programmes, policies and techniques to
(d) The right to strike, provided that it is
achieve steady economic, social and cultural
exercised in conformity with the laws of the
development and full and productive
particular country.
employment under conditions safeguarding
2. This article shall not prevent the imposition
fundamental political and economic freedoms
of lawful restrictions on the exercise of these
to the individual.
rights by members of the armed forces or of
Article 7 the police or of the administration of the State.
The States Parties to the present Covenant 3. Nothing in this article shall authorize
recognize the right of everyone to the States Parties to the International Labour
enjoyment of just and favourable conditions of Organisation Convention of 1948 concerning
work which ensure, in particular: Freedom of Association and Protection of the
(a) Remuneration which provides all workers, Right to Organize to take legislative measures
as a minimum, with: which would prejudice, or apply the law in such
a manner as would prejudice, the guarantees
(i) Fair wages and equal remuneration
provided for in that Convention.
for work of equal value without
distinction of any kind, in particular Article 9
women being guaranteed conditions
The States Parties to the present Covenant
of work not inferior to those enjoyed by
recognize the right of everyone to social
men, with equal pay for equal work;
security, including social insurance.
(ii) A decent living for themselves and
their families in accordance with the Article 10
provisions of the present Covenant; The States Parties to the present Covenant
(b) Safe and healthy working conditions; recognize that:
(c) Equal opportunity for everyone to be 1. The widest possible protection and
promoted in his employment to an assistance should be accorded to the family,
appropriate higher level, subject to no which is the natural and fundamental group
considerations other than those of unit of society, particularly for its establishment
seniority and competence; and while it is responsible for the care and
education of dependent children. Marriage
(d) Rest, leisure and reasonable limitation of
must be entered into with the free consent of
working hours and periodic holidays with
the intending spouses.
pay, as well as remuneration for public
holidays. 2. Special protection should be accorded to
mothers during a reasonable period before
Article 8
and after childbirth. During such period
1. The States Parties to the present
working mothers should be accorded paid
Covenant undertake to ensure:
leave or leave with adequate social security
(a) The right of everyone to form trade unions benefits.
and join the trade union of his choice,
3. Special measures of protection and
subject only to the rules of the organization
assistance should be taken on behalf of all
205

--- Page 212 ---
Building social protection systems
children and young persons without any (d) The creation of conditions which would
discrimination for reasons of parentage or assure to all medical service and medical
other conditions. Children and young persons attention in the event of sickness.
should be protected from economic and social
Article 13
exploitation. Their employment in work harmful
to their morals or health or dangerous to life or 1. The States Parties to the present
likely to hamper their normal development Covenant recognize the right of everyone to
should be punishable by law. States should education. They agree that education shall be
also set age limits below which the paid directed to the full development of the human
employment of child labour should be personality and the sense of its dignity, and
prohibited and punishable by law. shall strengthen the respect for human rights
and fundamental freedoms. They further agree
Article 11 that education shall enable all persons to
1. The States Parties to the present participate effectively in a free society,
Covenant recognize the right of everyone to an promote understanding, tolerance and
adequate standard of living for himself and his friendship among all nations and all racial,
family, including adequate food, clothing and ethnic or religious groups, and further the
housing, and to the continuous improvement of activities of the United Nations for the
living conditions. The States Parties will take maintenance of peace.
appropriate steps to ensure the realization of 2. The States Parties to the present
this right, recognizing to this effect the Covenant recognize that, with a view to
essential importance of international co- achieving the full realization of this right:
operation based on free consent.
(a) Primary education shall be compulsory
2. The States Parties to the present and available free to all;
Covenant, recognizing the fundamental right
(b) Secondary education in its different forms,
of everyone to be free from hunger, shall take,
including technical and vocational
individually and through international co-
secondary education, shall be made
operation, the measures, including specific
generally available and accessible to all by
programmes, which are needed:
every appropriate means, and in particular
(a) To improve methods of production, by the progressive introduction of free
conservation and distribution of food by education;
making full use of technical and scientific
(c) Higher education shall be made equally
knowledge, by disseminating knowledge
accessible to all, on the basis of capacity,
of the principles of nutrition and by
by every appropriate means, and in
developing or reforming agrarian systems
particular by the progressive introduction
in such a way as to achieve the most
of free education;
efficient development and utilization of
(d) Fundamental education shall be
natural resources;
encouraged or intensified as far as
(b) Taking into account the problems of both
possible for those persons who have not
food-importing and food-exporting countries,
received or completed the whole period of
to ensure an equitable distribution of world
their primary education;
food supplies in relation to need.
(e) The development of a system of schools at
Article 12 all levels shall be actively pursued, an
1. The States Parties to the present adequate fellowship system shall be
Covenant recognize the right of everyone to established, and the material conditions of
the enjoyment of the highest attainable teaching staff shall be continuously
standard of physical and mental health. improved.
2. The steps to be taken by the States 3. The States Parties to the present
Parties to the present Covenant to achieve the Covenant undertake to have respect for the
full realization of this right shall include those liberty of parents and, when applicable, legal
necessary for: guardians to choose for their children schools,
other than those established by the public
(a) The provision for the reduction of the
authorities, which conform to such minimum
stillbirth-rate and of infant mortality and for
educational standards as may be laid down or
the healthy development of the child;
approved by the State and to ensure the
(b) The improvement of all aspects of
religious and moral education of their children
environmental and industrial hygiene;
in conformity with their own convictions.
(c) The prevention, treatment and control of
4. No part of this article shall be construed so
epidemic, endemic, occupational and
as to interfere with the liberty of individuals and
other diseases;
bodies to establish and direct educational
206

--- Page 213 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
institutions, subject always to the observance accordance with the provisions of the
of the principles set forth in paragraph I of this present Covenant;
article and to the requirement that the (b) The Secretary-General of the United
education given in such institutions shall Nations shall also transmit to the
conform to such minimum standards as may specialized agencies copies of the reports,
be laid down by the State. or any relevant parts therefrom, from
States Parties to the present Covenant
Article 14
which are also members of these
Each State Party to the present Covenant
specialized agencies in so far as these
which, at the time of becoming a Party, has not
reports, or parts therefrom, relate to any
been able to secure in its metropolitan territory
matters which fall within the
or other territories under its jurisdiction
responsibilities of the said agencies in
compulsory primary education, free of charge,
accordance with their constitutional
undertakes, within two years, to work out and
instruments.
adopt a detailed plan of action for the
progressive implementation, within a Article 17
reasonable number of years, to be fixed in the 1. The States Parties to the present
plan, of the principle of compulsory education Covenant shall furnish their reports in stages,
free of charge for all. in accordance with a programme to be
established by the Economic and Social
Article 15
Council within one year of the entry into force
1. The States Parties to the present
of the present Covenant after consultation with
Covenant recognize the right of everyone:
the States Parties and the specialized
(a) To take part in cultural life; agencies concerned.
(b) To enjoy the benefits of scientific progress 2. Reports may indicate factors and
and its applications; difficulties affecting the degree of fulfilment of
(c) To benefit from the protection of the moral obligations under the present Covenant.
and material interests resulting from any 3. Where relevant information has previously
scientific, literary or artistic production of been furnished to the United Nations or to any
which he is the author. specialized agency by any State Party to the
2. The steps to be taken by the States present Covenant, it will not be necessary to
Parties to the present Covenant to achieve the reproduce that information, but a precise
full realization of this right shall include those reference to the information so furnished will
necessary for the conservation, the suffice.
development and the diffusion of science and
Article 18
culture.
Pursuant to its responsibilities under the
3. The States Parties to the present
Charter of the United Nations in the field of
Covenant undertake to respect the freedom
human rights and fundamental freedoms, the
indispensable for scientific research and
Economic and Social Council may make
creative activity.
arrangements with the specialized agencies in
4. The States Parties to the present
respect of their reporting to it on the progress
Covenant recognize the benefits to be derived
made in achieving the observance of the
from the encouragement and development of
provisions of the present Covenant falling
international contacts and co-operation in the
within the scope of their activities. These
scientific and cultural fields.
reports may include particulars of decisions
PART IV and recommendations on such
implementation adopted by their competent
Article 16
organs.
1. The States Parties to the present
Covenant undertake to submit in conformity Article 19
with this part of the Covenant reports on the The Economic and Social Council may transmit
measures which they have adopted and the to the Commission on Human Rights for study
progress made in achieving the observance of and general recommendation or, as
the rights recognized herein. appropriate, for information the reports
2. concerning human rights submitted by States in
(a) All reports shall be submitted to the accordance with articles 16 and 17, and those
Secretary-General of the United Nations, concerning human rights submitted by the
who shall transmit copies to the Economic specialized agencies in accordance with
and Social Council for consideration in article 18.
207

--- Page 214 ---
Building social protection systems
Article 20 PART V
The States Parties to the present Covenant and Article 26
the specialized agencies concerned may submit 1. The present Covenant is open for
comments to the Economic and Social Council signature by any State Member of the United
on any general recommendation under arti- Nations or member of any of its specialized
cle 19 or reference to such general recommen- agencies, by any State Party to the Statute of
dation in any report of the Commission on Hu- the International Court of Justice, and by any
man Rights or any documentation referred to other State which has been invited by the
therein. General Assembly of the United Nations to
become a party to the present Covenant.
Article 21
2. The present Covenant is subject to
The Economic and Social Council may submit
ratification. Instruments of ratification shall be
from time to time to the General Assembly
deposited with the Secretary-General of the
reports with recommendations of a general
United Nations.
nature and a summary of the information
received from the States Parties to the present 3. The present Covenant shall be open to
Covenant and the specialized agencies on the accession by any State referred to in
measures taken and the progress made in paragraph 1 of this article.
achieving general observance of the rights 4. Accession shall be effected by the deposit
recognized in the present Covenant. of an instrument of accession with the
Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Article 22
5. The Secretary-General of the United
The Economic and Social Council may bring to
Nations shall inform all States which have
the attention of other organs of the United
signed the present Covenant or acceded to it
Nations, their subsidiary organs and
of the deposit of each instrument of ratification
specialized agencies concerned with
or accession.
furnishing technical assistance any matters
arising out of the reports referred to in this part Article 27
of the present Covenant which may assist 1. The present Covenant shall enter into
such bodies in deciding, each within its field of force three months after the date of the deposit
competence, on the advisability of with the Secretary-General of the United
international measures likely to contribute to Nations of the thirty-fifth instrument of
the effective progressive implementation of the ratification or instrument of accession.
present Covenant.
2. For each State ratifying the present
Article 23 Covenant or acceding to it after the deposit of
the thirty-fifth instrument of ratification or
The States Parties to the present Covenant
instrument of accession, the present Covenant
agree that international action for the
shall enter into force three months after the
achievement of the rights recognized in the
date of the deposit of its own instrument of
present Covenant includes such methods as
ratification or instrument of accession.
the conclusion of conventions, the adoption of
recommendations, the furnishing of technical Article 28
assistance and the holding of regional meetings The provisions of the present Covenant shall
and technical meetings for the purpose of extend to all parts of federal States without any
consultation and study organized in conjunction limitations or exceptions.
with the Governments concerned.
Article 29
Article 24
1. Any State Party to the present Covenant
Nothing in the present Covenant shall be
may propose an amendment and file it with the
interpreted as impairing the provisions of the
Secretary-General of the United Nations. The
Charter of the United Nations and of the
Secretary-General shall thereupon communi-
constitutions of the specialized agencies which
cate any proposed amendments to the States
define the respective responsibilities of the
Parties to the present Covenant with a request
various organs of the United Nations and of the
that they notify him whether they favour a con-
specialized agencies in regard to the matters
ference of States Parties for the purpose of con-
dealt with in the present Covenant.
sidering and voting upon the proposals. In the
Article 25 event that at least one third of the States Parties
favours such a conference, the Secretary-Gen-
Nothing in the present Covenant shall be
eral shall convene the conference under the
interpreted as impairing the inherent right of all
auspices of the United Nations. Any amend-
peoples to enjoy and utilize fully and freely
ment adopted by a majority of the States Parties
their natural wealth and resources.
208

--- Page 215 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
present and voting at the conference shall be referred to in paragraph I of the same article of
submitted to the General Assembly of the the following particulars:
United Nations for approval. (a) Signatures, ratifications and accessions
2. Amendments shall come into force when under article 26;
they have been approved by the General (b) The date of the entry into force of the
Assembly of the United Nations and accepted present Covenant under article 27 and the
by a two-thirds majority of the States Parties to date of the entry into force of any
the present Covenant in accordance with their amendments under article 29.
respective constitutional processes.
Article 31
3. When amendments come into force they
shall be binding on those States Parties which 1. The present Covenant, of which the Chi-
have accepted them, other States Parties still nese, English, French, Russian and Spanish
being bound by the provisions of the present texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited
Covenant and any earlier amendment which in the archives of the United Nations.
they have accepted. 2. The Secretary-General of the United
Nations shall transmit certified copies of the
Article 30
present Covenant to all States referred to in
Irrespective of the notifications made under article 26.
article 26, paragraph 5, the Secretary-General
of the United Nations shall inform all States
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against
Women, 1979
INTRODUCTION National Reports (Article 18)
Content and Significance of the Convention Rules of Procedure (Article 19)
PREAMBLE Committee Meetings (Article 20)
Committee Reports (Article 21)
PART I
Role of Specialized Agencies (Article 22)
Discrimination (Article 1)
Policy Measures (Article 2) PART Vl
Guarantee of Basic Human Rights and Effect on Other Treaties (Article 23)
Fundamental Freedoms (Article 3) Commitment of States Parties (Article 24)
Special Measures (Article 4) Administration of the Convention (Articles 25–30)
Sex Role Stereotyping and Prejudice (Article 5)
INTRODUCTION
Prostitution (Article 6)
On 18 December 1979, the Convention on the
PART II Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination
against Women was adopted by the United
Political and Public Life (Article 7)
Nations General Assembly. It entered into
Representation (Article 8)
force as an international treaty on 3 September
Nationality (Article 9) 1981 after the twentieth country had ratified it.
By the tenth anniversary of the Convention in
PART III
1989, almost one hundred nations have
Education (Article 10) agreed to be bound by its provisions.
Employment (Article 11) The Convention was the culmination of more
Health (Article 12) than thirty years of work by the United Nations
Economic and Social Benefits (Article 13) Commission on the Status of Women, a body
established in 1946 to monitor the situation of
Rural Women (Article 14)
women and to promote women’s rights. The
PART IV Commission’s work has been instrumental in
Law (Article 15) bringing to light all the areas in which women
are denied equality with men. These efforts for
Marriage and Family Life (Article 16)
the advancement of women have resulted in
PART V several declarations and conventions, of which
the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms
Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination
against Women (Article 17)
209

--- Page 216 ---
Building social protection systems
of Discrimination against Women is the central their marital status. The Convention, thereby,
and most comprehensive document. draws attention to the fact that often women’s
Among the international human rights treaties, legal status has been linked to marriage,
the Convention takes an important place in making them dependent on their husband’s
bringing the female half of humanity into the nationality rather than individuals in their own
focus of human rights concerns. The spirit of right. Articles 10, 11 and 13, respectively,
the Convention is rooted in the goals of the affirm women’s rights to non-discrimination in
United Nations: to reaffirm faith in fundamental education, employment and economic and
human rights, in the dignity, and worth of the social activities. These demands are given
human person, in the equal rights of men and special emphasis with regard to the situation
women. The present document spells out the of rural women, whose particular struggles and
meaning of equality and how it can be vital economic contributions, as noted in
achieved. In so doing, the Convention article 14, warrant more attention in policy
establishes not only an international bill of planning. Article 15 asserts the full equality of
rights for women, but also an agenda for action women in civil and business matters,
by countries to guarantee the enjoyment of demanding that all instruments directed at
those rights. restricting women’s legal capacity “shall be
deemed null and void”. Finally, in article 16, the
In its preamble, the Convention explicitly
Convention returns to the issue of marriage
acknowledges that “extensive discrimination
and family relations, asserting the equal rights
against women continues to exist”, and
and obligations of women and men with regard
emphasizes that such discrimination “violates
to choice of spouse, parenthood, personal
the principles of equality of rights and respect for
rights and command over property.
human dignity”. As defined in article 1,
discrimination is understood as “any distinction, Aside from civil rights issues, the Convention
exclusion or restriction made o.1 the basis of also devotes major attention to a most vital
sex ... in the political, economic, social, cultural, concern of women, namely their reproductive
civil or any other field”. The Convention gives rights. The preamble sets the tone by stating
positive affirmation to the principle of equality by that “the role of women in procreation should not
requiring States parties to take “all appropriate be a basis for discrimination”. The link between
measures, including legislation, to ensure the discrimination and women’s reproductive role is
full development and advancement of women, a matter of recurrent concern in the Convention.
for the purpose of guaranteeing them the For example, it advocates, in article 5, “a proper
exercise and enjoyment of human rights and understanding of maternity as a social function”,
fundamental freedoms on a basis of equality demanding fully shared responsibility for child-
with men” (article 3). rearing by both sexes. Accordingly, provisions
for maternity protection and child-care are
The agenda for equality is specified in fourteen
proclaimed as essential rights and are
subsequent articles. In its approach, the
incorporated into all areas of the Convention,
Convention covers three dimensions of the
whether dealing with employment, family law,
situation of women. Civil rights and the legal
health care or education. Society’s obligation
status of women are dealt with in great detail.
extends to offering social services, especially
In addition, and unlike other human rights
child-care facilities, that allow individuals to
treaties, the Convention is also concerned with
combine family responsibilities with work and
the dimension of human reproduction as well
participation in public life. Special measures for
as with the impact of cultural factors on gender
maternity protection are recommended and
relations.
“shall not be considered discriminatory”
The legal status of women receives the
(article 4). The Convention also affirms
broadest attention. Concern over the basic
women’s right to reproductive choice. Notably, it
rights of political participation has not
is the only human rights treaty to mention family
diminished since the adoption of the
planning. States parties are obliged to include
Convention on the Political Rights of Women
advice on family planning in the education
in 1952. Its provisions, therefore, are restated
process (article l O.h) and to develop family
in article 7 of the present document, whereby
codes that guarantee women’s rights “to decide
women are guaranteed the rights to vote, to
freely and responsibly on the number and
hold public office and to exercise public
spacing of their children and to have access to
functions. This includes equal rights for women
the information, education and means to enable
to represent their countries at the international
them to exercise these rights” (article 16.e).
level (article 8). The Convention on the
The third general thrust of the Convention aims
Nationality of Married Women – adopted in
at enlarging our understanding of the concept
1957 – is integrated under article 9 providing
of human rights, as it gives formal recognition
for the statehood of women, irrespective of
to the influence of culture and tradition on
210

--- Page 217 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
restricting women’s enjoyment of their Convention on the Elimination
fundamental rights. These forces take shape of All Forms of Discrimination
in stereotypes, customs and norms which give against Women
rise to the multitude of legal, political and The States Parties to the present Convention,
economic constraints on the advancement of
Noting that the Charter of the United Nations
women. Noting this interrelationship, the
reaffirms faith in fundamental human rights, in
preamble of the Convention stresses “that a
the dignity and worth of the human person and
change in the traditional role of men as well as
in the equal rights of men and women,
the role of women in society and in the family
Noting that the Universal Declaration of
is needed to achieve full equality of men and
Human Rights affirms the principle of the
women”. States parties are therefore obliged
inadmissibility of discrimination and proclaims
to work towards the modification of social and
that all human beings are born free and equal
cultural patterns of individual conduct in order
in dignity and rights and that everyone is
to eliminate “prejudices and customary and all
entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth
other practices which are based on the idea of
therein, without distinction of any kind,
the inferiority or the superiority of either of the
including distinction based on sex,
sexes or on stereotyped roles for men and
women” (article 5). And Article 1O.c. Noting that the States Parties to the
mandates the revision of textbooks, school International Covenants on Human Rights
programmes and teaching methods with a have the obligation to ensure the equal rights
view to eliminating stereotyped concepts in the of men and women to enjoy all economic,
field of education. Finally, cultural patterns social, cultural, civil and political rights,
which define the public realm as a man’s world Considering the international conventions
and the domestic sphere as women’s domain concluded under the auspices of the United
are strongly targeted in all of the Convention’s Nations and the specialized agencies
provisions that affirm the equal responsibilities promoting equality of rights of men and
of both sexes in family life and their equal women,
rights with regard to education and Noting also the resolutions, declarations and
employment. Altogether, the Convention recommendations adopted by the United
provides a comprehensive framework for Nations and the specialized agencies
challenging the various forces that have promoting equality of rights of men and
created and sustained discrimination based women,
upon sex.
Concerned, however, that despite these
The implementation of the Convention is various instruments extensive discrimination
monitored by the Committee on the Elimination against women continues to exist,
of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW).
Recalling that discrimination against women
The Committee’s mandate and the
violates the principles of equality of rights and
administration of the treaty are defined in the
respect for human dignity, is an obstacle to the
Articles 17 to 30 of the Convention. The
participation of women, on equal terms with
Committee is composed of 23 experts
men, in the political, social, economic and
nominated by their Governments and elected
cultural life of their countries, hampers the
by the States parties as individuals “of high
growth of the prosperity of society and the
moral standing and competence in the field
family and makes more difficult the full
covered by the Convention”.
development of the potentialities of women in
At least every four years, the States parties are the service of their countries and of humanity,
expected to submit a national report to the
Concerned that in situations of poverty women
Committee, indicating the measures they have
have the least access to food, health,
adopted to give effect to the provisions of the
education, training and opportunities for
Convention. During its annual session, the
employment and other needs,
Committee members discuss these reports
with the Government representatives and Convinced that the establishment of the new
explore with them areas for further action by international economic order based on equity
the specific country. The Committee also and justice will contribute significantly towards
makes general recommendations to the States the promotion of equality between men and
parties on matters concerning the elimination women,
of discrimination against women. Emphasizing that the eradication of apartheid,
The full text of the Convention is set out herein: all forms of racism, racial discrimination,
colonialism, neo-colonialism, aggression,
foreign occupation and domination and
interference in the internal affairs of States is
211

--- Page 218 ---
Building social protection systems
essential to the full enjoyment of the rights of Article 2
men and women, States Parties condemn discrimination against
Affirming that the strengthening of interna- women in all its forms, agree to pursue by all
tional peace and security, the relaxation of in- appropriate means and without delay a policy
ternational tension, mutual co-operation of eliminating discrimination against women
among all States irrespective of their social and, to this end, undertake:
and economic systems, general and complete (a) To embody the principle of the equality of
disarmament, in particular nuclear disarma- men and women in their national
ment under strict and effective international constitutions or other appropriate
control, the affirmation of the principles of jus- legislation if not yet incorporated therein
tice, equality and mutual benefit in relations and to ensure, through law and other
among countries and the realization of the right appropriate means, the practical
of peoples under alien and colonial domination realization of this principle;
and foreign occupation to self-determination
(b) To adopt appropriate legislative and other
and independence, as well as respect for na-
measures, including sanctions where
tional sovereignty and territorial integrity, will
appropriate, prohibiting all discrimination
promote social progress and development and
against women;
as a consequence will contribute to the attain-
(c) To establish legal protection of the rights
ment of full equality between men and women,
of women on an equal basis with men and
Convinced that the full and complete
to ensure through competent national
development of a country, the welfare of the
tribunals and other public institutions the
world and the cause of peace require the
effective protection of women against any
maximum participation of women on equal
act of discrimination;
terms with men in all fields,
(d) To refrain from engaging in any act or
Bearing in mind the great contribution of
practice of discrimination against women
women to the welfare of the family and to the
and to ensure that public authorities and
development of society, so far not fully
institutions shall act in conformity with this
recognized, the social significance of maternity
obligation;
and the role of both parents in the family and
(e) To take all appropriate measures to
in the upbringing of children, and aware that
eliminate discrimination against women by
the role of women in procreation should not be
any person, organization or enterprise;
a basis for discrimination but that the
upbringing of children requires a sharing of (f) To take all appropriate measures,
responsibility between men and women and including legislation, to modify or abolish
society as a whole, existing laws, regulations, customs and
practices which constitute discrimination
Aware that a change in the traditional role of
against women;
men as well as the role of women in society
and in the family is needed to achieve full (g) To repeal all national penal provisions
equality between men and women, which constitute discrimination against
women.
Determined to implement the principles set
forth in the Declaration on the Elimination of Article 3
Discrimination against Women and, for that
States Parties shall take in all fields, in
purpose, to adopt the measures required for
particular in the political, social, economic and
the elimination of such discrimination in all its
cultural fields, all appropriate measures,
forms and manifestations,
including legislation, to ensure the full
Have agreed on the following: development and advancement of women, for
the purpose of guaranteeing them the exercise
PART I
and enjoyment of human rights and
Article I
fundamental freedoms on a basis of equality
For the purposes of the present Convention, with men.
the term “discrimination against women” shall
mean any distinction, exclusion or restriction Article 4
made on the basis of sex which has the effect 1. Adoption by States Parties of temporary
or purpose of impairing or nullifying the special measures aimed at accelerating de
recognition, enjoyment or exercise by women, facto equality between men and women shall
irrespective of their marital status, on a basis not be considered discrimination as defined in
of equality of men and women, of human rights the present Convention, but shall in no way
and fundamental freedoms in the political, entail as a consequence the maintenance of
economic, social, cultural, civil or any other unequal or separate standards; these
field. measures shall be discontinued when the
212

--- Page 219 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
objectives of equality of opportunity and the international level and to participate in the
treatment have been achieved. work of international organizations.
2. Adoption by States Parties of special
Article 9
measures, including those measures
1. States Parties shall grant women equal
contained in the present Convention, aimed at
rights with men to acquire, change or retain
protecting maternity shall not be considered
their nationality. They shall ensure in particular
discriminatory.
that neither marriage to an alien nor change of
Article 5 nationality by the husband during marriage
States Parties shall take all appropriate shall automatically change the nationality of
measures: the wife, render her stateless or force upon her
the nationality of the husband.
(a) To modify the social and cultural patterns
of conduct of men and women, with a view 2. States Parties shall grant women equal
to achieving the elimination of prejudices rights with men with respect to the nationality
and customary and all other practices of their children.
which are based on the idea of the
PART III
inferiority or the superiority of either of the
Article 10
sexes or on stereotyped roles for men and
women; States Parties shall take all appropriate
measures to eliminate discrimination against
(b) To ensure that family education includes a
women in order to ensure to them equal rights
proper understanding of maternity as a
with men in the field of education and in
social function and the recognition of the
particular to ensure, on a basis of equality of
common responsibility of men and women
men and women:
in the upbringing and development of their
children, it being understood that the (a) The same conditions for career and
interest of the children is the primordial vocational guidance, for access to studies
consideration in all cases. and for the achievement of diplomas in
educational establishments of all
Article 6 categories in rural as well as in urban
States Parties shall take all appropriate areas; this equality shall be ensured in pre-
measures, including legislation, to suppress all school, general, technical, professional
forms of traffic in women and exploitation of and higher technical education, as well as
prostitution of women. in all types of vocational training;
(b) Access to the same curricula, the same
PART II
examinations, teaching staff with
Article 7
qualifications of the same standard and
States Parties shall take all appropriate school premises and equipment of the
measures to eliminate discrimination against same quality;
women in the political and public life of the
(c) The elimination of any stereotyped
country and, in particular, shall ensure to
concept of the roles of men and women at
women, on equal terms with men, the right:
all levels and in all forms of education by
(a) To vote in all elections and public encouraging coeducation and other types
referenda and to be eligible for election to of education which will help to achieve this
all publicly elected bodies; aim and, in particular, by the revision of
(b) To participate in the formulation of textbooks and school programmes and the
government policy and the implementation adaptation of teaching methods;
thereof and to hold public office and (d) The same opportunities to benefit from
perform all public functions at all levels of scholarships and other study grants;
government;
(e) The same opportunities for access to
(c) To participate in non-governmental programmes of continuing education,
organizations and associations concerned including adult and functional literacy
with the public and political life of the programmes, particularly those aimed at
country. reducing, at the earliest possible time, any
gap in education existing between men
Article 8
and women;
States Parties shall take all appropriate
(f) The reduction of female student drop-out
measures to ensure to women, on equal terms
rates and the organization of programmes
with men and without any discrimination, the
for girls and women who have left school
opportunity to represent their Governments at
prematurely;
213

--- Page 220 ---
Building social protection systems
(g) The same Opportunities to participate through promoting the establishment and
actively in sports and physical education; development of a network of child-care
(h) Access to specific educational information facilities;
to help to ensure the health and well-being (d) To provide special protection to women
of families, including information and during pregnancy in types of work proved
advice on family planning. to be harmful to them.
3. Protective legislation relating to matters
Article 11
covered in this article shall be reviewed
1. States Parties shall take all appropriate
periodically in the light of scientific and
measures to eliminate discrimination against
technological knowledge and shall be revised,
women in the field of employment in order to
repealed or extended as necessary.
ensure, on a basis of equality of men and
women, the same rights, in particular: Article 12
(a) The right to work as an inalienable right of 1. States Parties shall take all appropriate
all human beings; measures to eliminate discrimination against
(b) The right to the same employment women in the field of health care in order to
opportunities, including the application of ensure, on a basis of equality of men and
the same criteria for selection in matters of women, access to health care services,
employment; including those related to family planning.
(c) The right to free choice of profession and 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of
employment, the right to promotion, job paragraph I of this article, States Parties shall
security and all benefits and conditions of ensure to women appropriate services in
service and the right to receive vocational connection with pregnancy, confinement and
training and retraining, including the post-natal period, granting free services
apprenticeships, advanced vocational where necessary, as well as adequate nutrition
training and recurrent training; during pregnancy and lactation.
(d) The right to equal remuneration, including Article 13
benefits, and to equal treatment in respect
States Parties shall take all appropriate
of work of equal value, as well as equality
measures to eliminate discrimination against
of treatment in the evaluation of the quality
women in other areas of economic and social
of work;
life in order to ensure, on a basis of equality of
(e) The right to social security, particularly in men and women, the same rights, in particular:
cases of retirement, unemployment,
(a) The right to family benefits;
sickness, invalidity and old age and other
(b) The right to bank loans, mortgages and
incapacity to work, as well as the right to
other forms of financial credit;
paid leave;
(c) The right to participate in recreational
(f) The right to protection of health and to
activities, sports and all aspects of cultural
safety in working conditions, including the
life.
safeguarding of the function of
reproduction. Article 14
2. In order to prevent discrimination against 1. States Parties shall take into account the
women on the grounds of marriage or particular problems faced by rural women and
maternity and to ensure their effective right to the significant roles which rural women play in
work, States Parties shall take appropriate the economic survival of their families,
measures: including their work in the non-monetized
(a) To prohibit, subject to the imposition of sectors of the economy, and shall take all
sanctions, dismissal on the grounds of appropriate measures to ensure the
pregnancy or of maternity leave and application of the provisions of the present
discrimination in dismissals on the basis of Convention to women in rural areas.
marital status; 2. States Parties shall take all appropriate
(b) To introduce maternity leave with pay or measures to eliminate discrimination against
with comparable social benefits without women in rural areas in order to ensure, on a
loss of former employment, seniority or basis of equality of men and women, that they
social allowances; participate in and benefit from rural
(c) To encourage the provision of the development and, in particular, shall ensure to
necessary supporting social services to such women the right:
enable parents to combine family (a) To participate in the elaboration and
obligations with work responsibilities and implementation of development planning
participation in public life, in particular at all levels;
214

--- Page 221 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
(b) To have access to adequate health care (b) The same right freely to choose a spouse
facilities, including information, counselling and to enter into marriage only with their
and services in family planning; free and full consent;
(c) To benefit directly from social security (c) The same rights and responsibilities
programmes; during marriage and at its dissolution;
(d) To obtain all types of training and (d) The same rights and responsibilities as
education, formal and non-formal, parents, irrespective of their marital status,
including that relating to functional literacy, in matters relating to their children; in all
as well as, inter alia, the benefit of all cases the interests of the children shall be
community and extension services, in paramount;
order to increase their technical (e) The same rights to decide freely and
proficiency; responsibly on the number and spacing of
(e) To organize self-help groups and co- their children and to have access to the
operatives in order to obtain equal access information, education and means to
to economic opportunities through enable them to exercise these rights;
employment or self employment; (f) The same rights and responsibilities with
(f) To participate in all community activities; regard to guardianship, wardship,
(g) To have access to agricultural credit and trusteeship and adoption of children, or
loans, marketing facilities, appropriate similar institutions where these concepts
technology and equal treatment in land exist in national legislation; in all cases the
and agrarian reform as well as in land interests of the children shall be
resettlement schemes; paramount;
(h) To enjoy adequate living conditions, (g) The same personal rights as husband and
particularly in relation to housing, wife, including the right to choose a family
sanitation, electricity and water supply, name, a profession and an occupation;
transport and communications. (h) The same rights for both spouses in respect
of the ownership, acquisition, management,
PART IV
administration, enjoyment and disposition
Article 15 of property, whether free of charge or for a
1. States Parties shall accord to women valuable consideration.
equality with men before the law. 2. The betrothal and the marriage of a child
2. States Parties shall accord to women, in shall have no legal effect, and all necessary
civil matters, a legal capacity identical to that action, including legislation, shall be taken to
of men and the same opportunities to exercise specify a minimum age for marriage and to
that capacity. In particular, they shall give make the registration of marriages in an official
women equal rights to conclude contracts and registry compulsory.
to administer property and shall treat them
PART V
equally in all stages of procedure in courts and
tribunals. Article 17
3. States Parties agree that all contracts and 1. For the purpose of considering the progress
all other private instruments of any kind with a made in the implementation of the present
legal effect which is directed at restricting the Convention, there shall be established a
legal capacity of women shall be deemed null Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination
and void. against Women (hereinafter referred to as the
Committee) consisting, at the time of entry into
4. States Parties shall accord to men and
force of the Convention, of eighteen and, after
women the same rights with regard to the law
ratification of or accession to the Convention by
relating to the movement of persons and the
the thirty-fifth State Party, of twenty-three
freedom to choose their residence and
experts of high moral standing and competence
domicile.
in the field covered by the Convention. The
Article 16 experts shall be elected by States Parties from
1. States Parties shall take all appropriate among their nationals and shall serve in their
measures to eliminate discrimination against personal capacity, consideration being given to
women in all matters relating to marriage and equitable geographical distribution and to the
family relations and in particular shall ensure, representation of the different forms of
on a basis of equality of men and women: civilization as well as the principal legal
systems.
(a) The same right to enter into marriage;
2. The members of the Committee shall be
elected by secret ballot from a list of persons
215

--- Page 222 ---
Building social protection systems
nominated by States Parties. Each State Party Article 18
may nominate one person from among its own 1. States Parties undertake to submit to the
nationals. Secretary-General of the United Nations, for
3. The initial election shall be held six months consideration by the Committee, a report on
after the date of the entry into force of the the legislative, judicial, administrative or other
present Convention. At least three months measures which they have adopted to give
before the date of each election the Secretary- effect to the provisions of the present
General of the United Nations shall address a Convention and on the progress made in this
letter to the States Parties inviting them to respect:
submit their nominations within two months. (a) Within one year after the entry into force
The Secretary-General shall prepare a list in for the State concerned;
alphabetical order of all persons thus
(b) Thereafter at least every four years and
nominated, indicating the States Parties which
further whenever the Committee so
have nominated them, and shall submit it to
requests.
the States Parties.
2. Reports may indicate factors and
4. Elections of the members of the
difficulties affecting the degree of fulfilment of
Committee shall be held at a meeting of States
obligations under the present Convention.
Parties convened by the Secretary-General at
Article 19
United Nations Headquarters. At that meeting,
for which two thirds of the States Parties shall 1. The Committee shall adopt its own rules of
constitute a quorum, the persons elected to the procedure.
Committee shall be those nominees who 2. The Committee shall elect its officers for a
obtain the largest number of votes and an term of two years.
absolute majority of the votes of the
representatives of States Parties present and Article 20
voting. 1. The Committee shall normally meet for a
5. The members of the Committee shall be period of not more than two weeks annually in
elected for a term of four years. However, the order to consider the reports submitted in
terms of nine of the members elected at the accordance with article 18 of the present
first election shall expire at the end of two Convention.
years; immediately after the first election the 2. The meetings of the Committee shall
names of these nine members shall be chosen normally be held at United Nations
by lot by the Chairman of the Committee. Headquarters or at any other convenient place
6. The election of the five additional as determined by the Committee.
members of the Committee shall be held in (amendment, status of ratification)
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
Article 21
2, 3 and 4 of this article, following the thirty-fifth
1. The Committee shall, through the
ratification or accession. The terms of two of
Economic and Social Council, report annually
the additional members elected on this
to the General Assembly of the United Nations
occasion shall expire at the end of two years,
on its activities and may make suggestions
the names of these two members having been
and general recommendations based on the
chosen by lot by the Chairman of the
examination of reports and information
Committee.
received from the States Parties. Such
7. For the filling of casual vacancies, the
suggestions and general recommendations
State Party whose expert has ceased to
shall be included in the report of the
function as a member of the Committee shall
Committee together with comments, if any,
appoint another expert from among its
from States Parties.
nationals, subject to the approval of the
2. The Secretary-General of the United
Committee.
Nations shall transmit the reports of the
8. The members of the Committee shall, with
Committee to the Commission on the Status of
the approval of the General Assembly, receive
Women for its information.
emoluments from United Nations resources on
such terms and conditions as the Assembly Article 22
may decide, having regard to the importance The specialized agencies shall be entitled to
of the Committee’s responsibilities. be represented at the consideration of the
9. The Secretary-General of the United implementation of such provisions of the
Nations shall provide the necessary staff and present Convention as fall within the scope of
facilities for the effective performance of the their activities. The Committee may invite the
functions of the Committee under the present specialized agencies to submit reports on the
Convention.
216

--- Page 223 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
implementation of the Convention in areas accession, the Convention shall enter into
falling within the scope of their activities. force on the thirtieth day after the date of the
deposit of its own instrument of ratification or
PART VI
accession.
Article 23
Article 28
Nothing in the present Convention shall affect
any provisions that are more conducive to the 1. The Secretary-General of the United
achievement of equality between men and Nations shall receive and circulate to all States
women which may be contained: the text of reservations made by States at the
time of ratification or accession.
(a) In the legislation of a State Party; or
2. A reservation incompatible with the object
(b) In any other international convention,
and purpose of the present Convention shall
treaty or agreement in force for that State.
not be permitted.
Article 24 3. Reservations may be withdrawn at any
States Parties undertake to adopt all time by notification to this effect addressed to
necessary measures at the national level the Secretary-General of the United Nations,
aimed at achieving the full realization of the who shall then inform all States thereof. Such
rights recognized in the present Convention. notification shall take effect on the date on
which it is received.
Article 25
Article 29
1. The present Convention shall be open for
1. Any dispute between two or more States
signature by all States.
Parties concerning the interpretation or
2. The Secretary-General of the United application of the present Convention which is
Nations is designated as the depositary of the not settled by negotiation shall, at the request
present Convention. of one of them, be submitted to arbitration. If
3. The present Convention is subject to within six months from the date of the request
ratification. Instruments of ratification shall be for arbitration the parties are unable to agree
deposited with the Secretary-General of the on the organization of the arbitration, any one
United Nations. of those parties may refer the dispute to the
4. The present Convention shall be open to International Court of Justice by request in
accession by all States. Accession shall be conformity with the Statute of the Court.
effected by the deposit of an instrument of 2. Each State Party may at the time of
accession with the Secretary-General of the signature or ratification of the present
United Nations. Convention or accession thereto declare that it
does not consider itself bound by paragraph I
Article 26
of this article. The other States Parties shall
1. A request for the revision of the present not be bound by that paragraph with respect to
Convention may be made at any time by any any State Party which has made such a
State Party by means of a notification in writing reservation.
addressed to the Secretary-General of the
3. Any State Party which has made a
United Nations.
reservation in accordance with paragraph 2 of
2. The General Assembly of the United this article may at any time withdraw that
Nations shall decide upon the steps, if any, to reservation by notification to the Secretary-
be taken in respect of such a request. General of the United Nations.
Article 27 Article 30
1. The present Convention shall enter into The present Convention, the Arabic, Chinese,
force on the thirtieth day after the date of English, French, Russian and Spanish texts of
deposit with the Secretary-General of the which are equally authentic, shall be deposited
United Nations of the twentieth instrument of with the Secretary-General of the United
ratification or accession. Nations. IN WITNESS WHEREOF the
2. For each State ratifying the present undersigned, duly authorized, have signed the
Convention or acceding to it after the deposit present Convention.
of the twentieth instrument of ratification or
217

--- Page 224 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Convention on the Rights of the Child, 1989
Adopted and opened for signature, Bearing in mind that the need to extend
ratification and accession by General particular care to the child has been stated in
Assembly resolution 44/25 the Geneva Declaration of the Rights of the
of 20 November 1989 Child of 1924 and in the Declaration of the
entry into force 2 September 1990, Rights of the Child adopted by the General
in accordance with article 49 Assembly on 20 November 1959 and
recognized in the Universal Declaration of
Preamble
Human Rights, in the International Covenant
The States Parties to the present Convention, on Civil and Political Rights (in particular in
Considering that, in accordance with the articles 23 and 24), in the International
principles proclaimed in the Charter of the Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural
United Nations, recognition of the inherent Rights (in particular in article 10) and in the
dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights statutes and relevant instruments of
of all members of the human family is the specialized agencies and international
foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the organizations concerned with the welfare of
world, children,
Bearing in mind that the peoples of the United Bearing in mind that, as indicated in the
Nations have, in the Charter, reaffirmed their Declaration of the Rights of the Child, “the
faith in fundamental human rights and in the child, by reason of his physical and mental
dignity and worth of the human person, and immaturity, needs special safeguards and
have determined to promote social progress care, including appropriate legal protection,
and better standards of life in larger freedom, before as well as after birth”,
Recognizing that the United Nations has, in the Recalling the provisions of the Declaration on
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in Social and Legal Principles relating to the
the International Covenants on Human Rights, Protection and Welfare of Children, with
proclaimed and agreed that everyone is Special Reference to Foster Placement and
entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth Adoption Nationally and Internationally; the
therein, without distinction of any kind, such as United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for
race, colour, sex, language, religion, political the Administration of Juvenile Justice (The
or other opinion, national or social origin, Beijing Rules); and the Declaration on the
property, birth or other status, Protection of Women and Children in
Recalling that, in the Universal Declaration of Emergency and Armed Conflict, Recognizing
Human Rights, the United Nations has that, in all countries in the world, there are
proclaimed that childhood is entitled to special children living in exceptionally difficult
care and assistance, conditions, and that such children need special
consideration,
Convinced that the family, as the fundamental
group of society and the natural environment Taking due account of the importance of the
for the growth and well-being of all its traditions and cultural values of each people
members and particularly children, should be for the protection and harmonious
afforded the necessary protection and development of the child, Recognizing the
assistance so that it can fully assume its importance of international co-operation for
responsibilities within the community, improving the living conditions of children in
every country, in particular in the developing
Recognizing that the child, for the full and
countries,
harmonious development of his or her
personality, should grow up in a family Have agreed as follows:
environment, in an atmosphere of happiness,
PART I
love and understanding,
Article 1
Considering that the child should be fully
For the purposes of the present Convention, a
prepared to live an individual life in society,
child means every human being below the age
and brought up in the spirit of the ideals
of eighteen years unless under the law
proclaimed in the Charter of the United
applicable to the child, majority is attained
Nations, and in particular in the spirit of peace,
earlier.
dignity, tolerance, freedom, equality and
solidarity,
218

--- Page 225 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Article 2 child of the rights recognized in the present
1. States Parties shall respect and ensure Convention.
the rights set forth in the present Convention
Article 6
to each child within their jurisdiction without
1. States Parties recognize that every child
discrimination of any kind, irrespective of the
has the inherent right to life.
child’s or his or her parent’s or legal guardian’s
race, colour, sex, language, religion, political 2. States Parties shall ensure to the
or other opinion, national, ethnic or social maximum extent possible the survival and
origin, property, disability, birth or other status. development of the child.
2. States Parties shall take all appropriate Article 7
measures to ensure that the child is protected
1. The child shall be registered immediately
against all forms of discrimination or
after birth and shall have the right from birth to
punishment on the basis of the status,
a name, the right to acquire a nationality and.
activities, expressed opinions, or beliefs of the
as far as possible, the right to know and be
child’s parents, legal guardians, or family
cared for by his or her parents.
members.
2. States Parties shall ensure the
Article 3 implementation of these rights in accordance
1. In all actions concerning children, whether with their national law and their obligations
undertaken by public or private social welfare under the relevant international instruments in
institutions, courts of law, administrative this field, in particular where the child would
authorities or legislative bodies, the best otherwise be stateless.
interests of the child shall be a primary Article 8
consideration. 1. States Parties undertake to respect the
2. States Parties undertake to ensure the right of the child to preserve his or her identity,
child such protection and care as is necessary including nationality, name and family relations
for his or her well-being, taking into account as recognized by law without unlawful
the rights and duties of his or her parents, legal interference.
guardians, or other individuals legally 2. Where a child is illegally deprived of some
responsible for him or her, and, to this end, or all of the elements of his or her identity,
shall take all appropriate legislative and States Parties shall provide appropriate
administrative measures. assistance and protection, with a view to re-
3. States Parties shall ensure that the establishing speedily his or her identity.
institutions, services and facilities responsible
for the care or protection of children shall Article 9
conform with the standards established by 1. States Parties shall ensure that a child
competent authorities, particularly in the areas shall not be separated from his or her parents
of safety, health, in the number and suitability against their will, except when competent
of their staff, as well as competent supervision. authorities subject to judicial review determine,
in accordance with applicable law and
Article 4 procedures, that such separation is necessary
States Parties shall undertake all appropriate for the best interests of the child. Such
legislative, administrative, and other measures determination may be necessary in a particular
for the implementation of the rights recognized case such as one involving abuse or neglect of
in the present Convention. With regard to the child by the parents, or one where the
economic, social and cultural rights, States parents are living separately and a decision
Parties shall undertake such measures to the must be made as to the child’s place of
maximum extent of their available resources residence.
and, where needed, within the framework of 2. In any proceedings pursuant to paragraph
international co-operation. 1 of the present article, all interested parties
shall be given an opportunity to participate in
Article 5
the proceedings and make their views known.
States Parties shall respect the
3. States Parties shall respect the right of the
responsibilities, rights and duties of parents or,
child who is separated from one or both
where applicable, the members of the
parents to maintain personal relations and
extended family or community as provided for
direct contact with both parents on a regular
by local custom, legal guardians or other
basis, except if it is contrary to the child’s best
persons legally responsible for the child, to
interests.
provide, in a manner consistent with the
evolving capacities of the child, appropriate 4. Where such separation results from any
direction and guidance in the exercise by the action initiated by a State Party, such as the
219

--- Page 226 ---
Building social protection systems
detention, imprisonment, exile, deportation or child being given due weight in accordance
death (including death arising from any cause with the age and maturity of the child.
while the person is in the custody of the State) 2. For this purpose, the child shall in
of one or both parents or of the child, that State particular be provided the opportunity to be
Party shall, upon request, provide the parents, heard in any judicial and administrative
the child or, if appropriate, another member of proceedings affecting the child, either directly,
the family with the essential information or through a representative or an appropriate
concerning the whereabouts of the absent body, in a manner consistent with the
member(s) of the family unless the provision of procedural rules of national law.
the information would be detrimental to the
well-being of the child. States Parties shall Article 13
further ensure that the submission of such a 1. The child shall have the right to freedom of
request shall of itself entail no adverse expression; this right shall include freedom to
consequences for the person(s) concerned. seek, receive and impart information and ideas
of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either
Article 10
orally, in writing or in print, in the form of art, or
1. In accordance with the obligation of States through any other media of the child’s choice.
Parties under article 9, paragraph 1,
2. The exercise of this right may be subject
applications by a child or his or her parents to
to certain restrictions, but these shall only be
enter or leave a State Party for the purpose of
such as are provided by law and are
family reunification shall be dealt with by
necessary:
States Parties in a positive, humane and
(a) For respect of the rights or reputations of
expeditious manner. States Parties shall
others; or
further ensure that the submission of such a
request shall entail no adverse consequences (b) For the protection of national security or of
for the applicants and for the members of their public order (ordre public), or of public
family. health or morals.
2. A child whose parents reside in different Article 14
States shall have the right to maintain on a
1. States Parties shall respect the right of the
regular basis, save in exceptional
child to freedom of thought, conscience and
circumstances personal relations and direct
religion.
contacts with both parents. Towards that end
and in accordance with the obligation of States 2. States Parties shall respect the rights and
Parties under article 9, paragraph 1, States duties of the parents and, when applicable,
Parties shall respect the right of the child and legal guardians, to provide direction to the
his or her parents to leave any country, child in the exercise of his or her right in a
including their own, and to enter their own manner consistent with the evolving capacities
country. The right to leave any country shall be of the child.
subject only to such restrictions as are 3. Freedom to manifest one’s religion or
prescribed by law and which are necessary to beliefs may be subject only to such limitations
protect the national security, public order as are prescribed by law and are necessary to
(ordre public), public health or morals or the protect public safety, order, health or morals,
rights and freedoms of others and are or the fundamental rights and freedoms of
consistent with the other rights recognized in others.
the present Convention.
Article 15
Article 11 1. States Parties recognize the rights of the
1. States Parties shall take measures to child to freedom of association and to freedom
combat the illicit transfer and non-return of of peaceful assembly.
children abroad. 2. No restrictions may be placed on the
2. To this end, States Parties shall promote exercise of these rights other than those
the conclusion of bilateral or multilateral imposed in conformity with the law and which
agreements or accession to existing are necessary in a democratic society in the
agreements. interests of national security or public safety,
public order (ordre public), the protection of
Article 12 public health or morals or the protection of the
1. States Parties shall assure to the child rights and freedoms of others.
who is capable of forming his or her own views
the right to express those views freely in all Article 16
matters affecting the child, the views of the 1. No child shall be subjected to arbitrary or
unlawful interference with his or her privacy,
220

--- Page 227 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
family, or correspondence, nor to unlawful care services and facilities for which they are
attacks on his or her honour and reputation. eligible.
2. The child has the right to the protection of
Article 19
the law against such interference or attacks.
1. States Parties shall take all appropriate
Article 17 legislative, administrative, social and
States Parties recognize the important educational measures to protect the child from
function performed by the mass media and all forms of physical or mental violence, injury
shall ensure that the child has access to or abuse, neglect or negligent treatment,
information and material from a diversity of maltreatment or exploitation, including sexual
national and international sources, especially abuse, while in the care of parent(s), legal
those aimed at the promotion of his or her guardian(s) or any other person who has the
social, spiritual and moral well-being and care of the child.
physical and mental health. 2. Such protective measures should, as
To this end, States Parties shall: appropriate, include effective procedures for
the establishment of social programmes to
(a) Encourage the mass media to disseminate
provide necessary support for the child and for
information and material of social and
those who have the care of the child, as well
cultural benefit to the child and in
as for other forms of prevention and for
accordance with the spirit of article 29;
identification, reporting, referral, investigation,
(b) Encourage international co-operation in
treatment and follow-up of instances of child
the production, exchange and
maltreatment described heretofore, and, as
dissemination of such information and
appropriate, for judicial involvement.
material from a diversity of cultural,
national and international sources; Article 20
(c) Encourage the production and 1. A child temporarily or permanently
dissemination of children’s books; deprived of his or her family environment, or in
(d) Encourage the mass media to have whose own best interests cannot be allowed to
particular regard to the linguistic needs of remain in that environment, shall be entitled to
the child who belongs to a minority group special protection and assistance provided by
or who is indigenous; the State.
(e) Encourage the development of 2. States Parties shall in accordance with
appropriate guidelines for the protection of their national laws ensure alternative care for
the child from information and material such a child.
injurious to his or her well-being, bearing 3. Such care could include, inter alia, foster
in mind the provisions of articles 13 and placement, kafalah of Islamic law, adoption or
18. if necessary placement in suitable institutions
for the care of children. When considering
Article 18
solutions, due regard shall be paid to the
1. States Parties shall use their best efforts desirability of continuity in a child’s upbringing
to ensure recognition of the principle that both and to the child’s ethnic, religious, cultural and
parents have common responsibilities for the linguistic background.
upbringing and development of the child.
Parents or, as the case may be, legal Article 21
guardians, have the primary responsibility for States Parties that recognize and/or permit the
the upbringing and development of the child. system of adoption shall ensure that the best
The best interests of the child will be their basic interests of the child shall be the paramount
concern. consideration and they shall:
2. For the purpose of guaranteeing and (a) Ensure that the adoption of a child is
promoting the rights set forth in the present authorized only by competent authorities
Convention, States Parties shall render who determine, in accordance with
appropriate assistance to parents and legal applicable law and procedures and on the
guardians in the performance of their child- basis of all pertinent and reliable
rearing responsibilities and shall ensure the information, that the adoption is
development of institutions, facilities and permissible in view of the child’s status
services for the care of children. concerning parents, relatives and legal
3. States Parties shall take all appropriate guardians and that, if required, the
measures to ensure that children of working persons concerned have given their
parents have the right to benefit from child- informed consent to the adoption on the
basis of such counselling as may be
necessary;
221

--- Page 228 ---
Building social protection systems
(b) Recognize that inter-country adoption may 2. States Parties recognize the right of the
be considered as an alternative means of disabled child to special care and shall
child’s care, if the child cannot be placed encourage and ensure the extension, subject
in a foster or an adoptive family or cannot to available resources, to the eligible child and
in any suitable manner be cared for in the those responsible for his or her care, of
child’s country of origin; assistance for which application is made and
(c) Ensure that the child concerned by inter- which is appropriate to the child’s condition
country adoption enjoys safeguards and and to the circumstances of the parents or
standards equivalent to those existing in others caring for the child.
the case of national adoption; 3. Recognizing the special needs of a
(d) Take all appropriate measures to ensure disabled child, assistance extended in
that, in inter-country adoption, the accordance with paragraph 2 of the present
placement does not result in improper article shall be provided free of charge,
financial gain for those involved in it; whenever possible, taking into account the
financial resources of the parents or others
(e) Promote, where appropriate, the
caring for the child, and shall be designed to
objectives of the present article by
ensure that the disabled child has effective
concluding bilateral or multilateral
access to and receives education, training,
arrangements or agreements, and
health care services, rehabilitation services,
endeavour, within this framework, to
preparation for employment and recreation
ensure that the placement of the child in
opportunities in a manner conducive to the
another country is carried out by
child’s achieving the fullest possible social
competent authorities or organs.
integration and individual development,
Article 22 including his or her cultural and spiritual
1. States Parties shall take appropriate development.
measures to ensure that a child who is seeking 4. States Parties shall promote, in the spirit
refugee status or who is considered a refugee of international cooperation, the exchange of
in accordance with applicable international or appropriate information in the field of
domestic law and procedures shall, whether preventive health care and of medical,
unaccompanied or accompanied by his or her psychological and functional treatment of
parents or by any other person, receive disabled children, including dissemination of
appropriate protection and humanitarian and access to information concerning methods
assistance in the enjoyment of applicable of rehabilitation, education and vocational
rights set forth in the present Convention and services, with the aim of enabling States
in other international human rights or Parties to improve their capabilities and skills
humanitarian instruments to which the said and to widen their experience in these areas.
States are Parties. In this regard, particular account shall be taken
2. For this purpose, States Parties shall of the needs of developing countries.
provide, as they consider appropriate, co-
Article 24
operation in any efforts by the United Nations
1. States Parties recognize the right of the
and other competent intergovernmental
child to the enjoyment of the highest attainable
organizations or non-governmental
standard of health and to facilities for the
organizations co-operating with the United
treatment of illness and rehabilitation of health.
Nations to protect and assist such a child and to
States Parties shall strive to ensure that no
trace the parents or other members of the family
child is deprived of his or her right of access to
of any refugee child in order to obtain
such health care services.
information necessary for reunification with his
or her family. In cases where no parents or other 2. States Parties shall pursue full
members of the family can be found, the child implementation of this right and, in particular,
shall be accorded the same protection as any shall take appropriate measures:
other child permanently or temporarily deprived (a) To diminish infant and child mortality;
of his or her family environment for any reason, (b) To ensure the provision of necessary
as set forth in the present Convention. medical assistance and health care to all
children with emphasis on the
Article 23
development of primary health care;
1. States Parties recognize that a mentally or
(c) To combat disease and malnutrition,
physically disabled child should enjoy a full
including within the framework of primary
and decent life, in conditions which ensure
health care, through, inter alia, the
dignity, promote self-reliance and facilitate the
application of readily available technology
child’s active participation in the community.
and through the provision of adequate
222

--- Page 229 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
nutritious foods and clean drinking-water, the conditions of living necessary for the child’s
taking into consideration the dangers and development.
risks of environmental pollution; 3. States Parties, in accordance with national
(d) To ensure appropriate pre-natal and post- conditions and within their means, shall take
natal health care for mothers; appropriate measures to assist parents and
(e) To ensure that all segments of society, in others responsible for the child to implement
particular parents and children, are this right and shall in case of need provide
informed, have access to education and are material assistance and support programmes,
supported in the use of basic knowledge of particularly with regard to nutrition, clothing
child health and nutrition, the advantages of and housing.
breastfeeding, hygiene and environmental 4. States Parties shall take all appropriate
sanitation and the prevention of accidents; measures to secure the recovery of
(f) To develop preventive health care, maintenance for the child from the parents or
guidance for parents and family planning other persons having financial responsibility
education and services. for the child, both within the State Party and
from abroad. In particular, where the person
3. States Parties shall take all effective and
having financial responsibility for the child lives
appropriate measures with a view to abolishing
in a State different from that of the child, States
traditional practices prejudicial to the health of
Parties shall promote the accession to
children.
international agreements or the conclusion of
4. States Parties undertake to promote and
such agreements, as well as the making of
encourage international co-operation with a
other appropriate arrangements.
view to achieving progressively the full
realization of the right recognized in the Article 28
present article. In this regard, particular 1. States Parties recognize the right of the
account shall be taken of the needs of child to education, and with a view to achieving
developing countries. this right progressively and on the basis of
equal opportunity, they shall, in particular:
Article 25
(a) Make primary education compulsory and
States Parties recognize the right of a child
available free to all;
who has been placed by the competent
authorities for the purposes of care, protection (b) Encourage the development of different
or treatment of his or her physical or mental forms of secondary education, including
health, to a periodic review of the treatment general and vocational education, make
provided to the child and all other them available and accessible to every
circumstances relevant to his or her child, and take appropriate measures such
placement. as the introduction of free education and
offering financial assistance in case of
Article 26 need;
1. States Parties shall recognize for every (c) Make higher education accessible to all on
child the right to benefit from social security, the basis of capacity by every appropriate
including social insurance, and shall take the means;
necessary measures to achieve the full
(d) Make educational and vocational
realization of this right in accordance with their
information and guidance available and
national law.
accessible to all children;
2. The benefits should, where appropriate,
(e) Take measures to encourage regular
be granted, taking into account the resources
attendance at schools and the reduction of
and the circumstances of the child and
drop-out rates.
persons having responsibility for the
2. States Parties shall take all appropriate
maintenance of the child, as well as any other
measures to ensure that school discipline is
consideration relevant to an application for
administered in a manner consistent with the
benefits made by or on behalf of the child.
child’s human dignity and in conformity with
Article 27 the present Convention.
1. States Parties recognize the right of every 3. States Parties shall promote and
child to a standard of living adequate for the encourage international cooperation in matters
child’s physical, mental, spiritual, moral and relating to education, in particular with a view
social development. to contributing to the elimination of ignorance
2. The parent(s) or others responsible for the and illiteracy throughout the world and
child have the primary responsibility to secure, facilitating access to scientific and technical
within their abilities and financial capacities, knowledge and modern teaching methods. In
223

--- Page 230 ---
Building social protection systems
this regard, particular account shall be taken of provision of appropriate and equal opportuni-
the needs of developing countries. ties for cultural, artistic, recreational and lei-
sure activity.
Article 29
1. States Parties agree that the education of Article 32
the child shall be directed to: 1. States Parties recognize the right of the
(a) The development of the child’s child to be protected from economic
personality, talents and mental and exploitation and from performing any work that
physical abilities to their fullest potential; is likely to be hazardous or to interfere with the
child’s education, or to be harmful to the child’s
(b) The development of respect for human
health or physical, mental, spiritual, moral or
rights and fundamental freedoms, and for
social development.
the principles enshrined in the Charter of
the United Nations; 2. States Parties shall take legislative,
administrative, social and educational
(c) The development of respect for the child’s
measures to ensure the implementation of the
parents, his or her own cultural identity,
present article. To this end, and having regard
language and values, for the national
to the relevant provisions of other international
values of the country in which the child is
instruments, States Parties shall in particular:
living, the country from which he or she
may originate, and for civilizations different (a) Provide for a minimum age or minimum
from his or her own; ages for admission to employment;
(d) The preparation of the child for responsible (b) Provide for appropriate regulation of the
life in a free society, in the spirit of hours and conditions of employment;
understanding, peace, tolerance, equality (c) Provide for appropriate penalties or other
of sexes, and friendship among all sanctions to ensure the effective
peoples, ethnic, national and religious enforcement of the present article.
groups and persons of indigenous origin;
Article 33
(e) The development of respect for the natural
States Parties shall take all appropriate
environment.
measures, including legislative, administrative,
2. No part of the present article or article 28
social and educational measures, to protect
shall be construed so as to interfere with the
children from the illicit use of narcotic drugs
liberty of individuals and bodies to establish
and psychotropic substances as defined in the
and direct educational institutions, subject
relevant international treaties, and to prevent
always to the observance of the principle set
the use of children in the illicit production and
forth in paragraph 1 of the present article and
trafficking of such substances.
to the requirements that the education given in
such institutions shall conform to such Article 34
minimum standards as may be laid down by States Parties undertake to protect the child
the State. from all forms of sexual exploitation and sexual
abuse. For these purposes, States Parties
Article 30
shall in particular take all appropriate national,
In those States in which ethnic, religious or
bilateral and multilateral measures to prevent:
linguistic minorities or persons of indigenous
(a) The inducement or coercion of a child to
origin exist, a child belonging to such a
engage in any unlawful sexual activity;
minority or who is indigenous shall not be
denied the right, in community with other (b) The exploitative use of children in prostitution
members of his or her group, to enjoy his or or other unlawful sexual practices;
her own culture, to profess and practise his or (c) The exploitative use of children in
her own religion, or to use his or her own pornographic performances and materials.
language.
Article 35
Article 31 States Parties shall take all appropriate
1. States Parties recognize the right of the national, bilateral and multilateral measures to
child to rest and leisure, to engage in play and prevent the abduction of, the sale of or traffic
recreational activities appropriate to the age of in children for any purpose or in any form.
the child and to participate freely in cultural life
and the arts. Article 36
2. States Parties shall respect and promote States Parties shall protect the child against all
the right of the child to participate fully in cul- other forms of exploitation prejudicial to any
tural and artistic life and shall encourage the aspects of the child’s welfare.
224

--- Page 231 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Article 37 Article 39
States Parties shall ensure that: States Parties shall take all appropriate
(a) No child shall be subjected to torture or measures to promote physical and
other cruel, inhuman or degrading psychological recovery and social
treatment or punishment. Neither capital reintegration of a child victim of: any form of
punishment nor life imprisonment without neglect, exploitation, or abuse; torture or any
possibility of release shall be imposed for other form of cruel, inhuman or degrading
offences committed by persons below treatment or punishment; or armed conflicts.
eighteen years of age; Such recovery and reintegration shall take
place in an environment which fosters the
(b) No child shall be deprived of his or her
health, self-respect and dignity of the child.
liberty unlawfully or arbitrarily. The arrest,
detention or imprisonment of a child shall Article 40
be in conformity with the law and shall be 1. States Parties recognize the right of every
used only as a measure of last resort and child alleged as, accused of, or recognized as
for the shortest appropriate period of time; having infringed the penal law to be treated in
(c) Every child deprived of liberty shall be a manner consistent with the promotion of the
treated with humanity and respect for the child’s sense of dignity and worth, which
inherent dignity of the human person, and reinforces the child’s respect for the human
in a manner which takes into account the rights and fundamental freedoms of others and
needs of persons of his or her age. In which takes into account the child’s age and
particular, every child deprived of liberty the desirability of promoting the child’s
shall be separated from adults unless it is reintegration and the child’s assuming a
considered in the child’s best interest not constructive role in society.
to do so and shall have the right to 2. To this end, and having regard to the
maintain contact with his or her family relevant provisions of international
through correspondence and visits, save instruments, States Parties shall, in particular,
in exceptional circumstances; ensure that:
(d) Every child deprived of his or her liberty (a) No child shall be alleged as, be accused
shall have the right to prompt access to of, or recognized as having infringed the
legal and other appropriate assistance, as penal law by reason of acts or omissions
well as the right to challenge the legality of that were not prohibited by national or
the deprivation of his or her liberty before international law at the time they were
a court or other competent, independent committed;
and impartial authority, and to a prompt (b) Every child alleged as or accused of
decision on any such action. having infringed the penal law has at least
the following guarantees:
Article 38
(i) To be presumed innocent until proven
1. States Parties undertake to respect and to
guilty according to law;
ensure respect for rules of international
humanitarian law applicable to them in armed (ii) To be informed promptly and directly
conflicts which are relevant to the child. of the charges against him or her, and,
if appropriate, through his or her
2. States Parties shall take all feasible
parents or legal guardians, and to
measures to ensure that persons who have not
have legal or other appropriate
attained the age of fifteen years do not take a
assistance in the preparation and
direct part in hostilities.
presentation of his or her defence;
3. States Parties shall refrain from recruiting
(iii) To have the matter determined without
any person who has not attained the age of
delay by a competent, independent
fifteen years into their armed forces. In
and impartial authority or judicial body
recruiting among those persons who have
in a fair hearing according to law, in
attained the age of fifteen years but who have
the presence of legal or other
not attained the age of eighteen years, States
appropriate assistance and, unless it
Parties shall endeavour to give priority to those
is considered not to be in the best
who are oldest.
interest of the child, in particular,
4. In accordance with their obligations under
taking into account his or her age or
international humanitarian law to protect the
situation, his or her parents or legal
civilian population in armed conflicts, States
guardians;
Parties shall take all feasible measures to
(iv) Not to be compelled to give testimony
ensure protection and care of children who are
or to confess guilt; to examine or have
affected by an armed conflict.
examined adverse witnesses and to
225

--- Page 232 ---
Building social protection systems
obtain the participation and Article 43
examination of witnesses on his or her 1. For the purpose of examining the progress
behalf under conditions of equality; made by States Parties in achieving the
(v) If considered to have infringed the realization of the obligations undertaken in the
penal law, to have this decision and present Convention, there shall be established
any measures imposed in a Committee on the Rights of the Child, which
consequence thereof reviewed by a shall carry out the functions hereinafter
higher competent, independent and provided.
impartial authority or judicial body 2. The Committee shall consist of eighteen
according to law; experts of high moral standing and recognized
(vi) To have the free assistance of an competence in the field covered by this
interpreter if the child cannot Convention.1/ The members of the Committee
understand or speak the language shall be elected by States Parties from among
used; their nationals and shall serve in their personal
(vii) To have his or her privacy fully capacity, consideration being given to
respected at all stages of the equitable geographical distribution, as well as
proceedings. to the principal legal systems.
3. States Parties shall seek to promote the 3. The members of the Committee shall be
establishment of laws, procedures, authorities elected by secret ballot from a list of persons
and institutions specifically applicable to nominated by States Parties. Each State Party
children alleged as, accused of, or recognized may nominate one person from among its own
as having infringed the penal law, and, in nationals.
particular: 4. The initial election to the Committee shall
(a) The establishment of a minimum age be held no later than six months after the date
below which children shall be presumed of the entry into force of the present
not to have the capacity to infringe the Convention and thereafter every second year.
penal law; At least four months before the date of each
election, the Secretary-General of the United
(b) Whenever appropriate and desirable,
Nations shall address a letter to States Parties
measures for dealing with such children
inviting them to submit their nominations within
without resorting to judicial proceedings,
two months. The Secretary-General shall
providing that human rights and legal
subsequently prepare a list in alphabetical
safeguards are fully respected. 4. A
order of all persons thus nominated, indicating
variety of dispositions, such as care,
States Parties which have nominated them,
guidance and supervision orders;
and shall submit it to the States Parties to the
counselling; probation; foster care;
present Convention.
education and vocational training
programmes and other alternatives to 5. The elections shall be held at meetings of
institutional care shall be available to States Parties convened by the Secretary-
ensure that children are dealt with in a General at United Nations Headquarters. At
manner appropriate to their well-being and those meetings, for which two thirds of States
proportionate both to their circumstances Parties shall constitute a quorum, the persons
and the offence. elected to the Committee shall be those who
obtain the largest number of votes and an
Article 41 absolute majority of the votes of the
Nothing in the present Convention shall affect representatives of States Parties present and
any provisions which are more conducive to voting.
the realization of the rights of the child and 6. The members of the Committee shall be
which may be contained in: elected for a term of four years. They shall be
(a) The law of a State party; or eligible for re-election if renominated. The term
(b) International law in force for that State. of five of the members elected at the first
election shall expire at the end of two years;
PART II immediately after the first election, the names
Article 42 of these five members shall be chosen by lot
by the Chairman of the meeting.
States Parties undertake to make the
principles and provisions of the Convention 7. If a member of the Committee dies or
widely known, by appropriate and active resigns or declares that for any other cause he
means, to adults and children alike. or she can no longer perform the duties of the
Committee, the State Party which nominated
the member shall appoint another expert from
among its nationals to serve for the remainder
226

--- Page 233 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
of the term, subject to the approval of the Social Council, every two years, reports on its
Committee. activities.
8. The Committee shall establish its own 6. States Parties shall make their reports
rules of procedure. widely available to the public in their own
9. The Committee shall elect its officers for a countries.
period of two years.
Article 45
10. The meetings of the Committee shall
In order to foster the effective implementation
normally be held at United Nations
of the Convention and to encourage
Headquarters or at any other convenient place
international co-operation in the field covered
as determined by the Committee. The
by the Convention:
Committee shall normally meet annually. The
(a) The specialized agencies, the United
duration of the meetings of the Committee
Nations Children’s Fund, and other United
shall be determined, and reviewed, if
Nations organs shall be entitled to be
necessary, by a meeting of the States Parties
represented at the consideration of the
to the present Convention, subject to the
implementation of such provisions of the
approval of the General Assembly.
present Convention as fall within the scope
11. The Secretary-General of the United
of their mandate. The Committee may
Nations shall provide the necessary staff and
invite the specialized agencies, the United
facilities for the effective performance of the
Nations Children’s Fund and other
functions of the Committee under the present
competent bodies as it may consider
Convention.
appropriate to provide expert advice on the
12. With the approval of the General implementation of the Convention in areas
Assembly, the members of the Committee falling within the scope of their respective
established under the present Convention mandates. The Committee may invite the
shall receive emoluments from United Nations specialized agencies, the United Nations
resources on such terms and conditions as the Children’s Fund, and other United Nations
Assembly may decide. organs to submit reports on the
implementation of the Convention in areas
Article 44
falling within the scope of their activities;
1. States Parties undertake to submit to the
(b) The Committee shall transmit, as it may
Committee, through the Secretary-General of
consider appropriate, to the specialized
the United Nations, reports on the measures
agencies, the United Nations Children’s
they have adopted which give effect to the
Fund and other competent bodies, any
rights recognized herein and on the progress
reports from States Parties that contain a
made on the enjoyment of those rights
request, or indicate a need, for technical
(a) Within two years of the entry into force of
advice or assistance, along with the
the Convention for the State Party
Committee’s observations and
concerned;
suggestions, if any, on these requests or
(b) Thereafter every five years. indications;
2. Reports made under the present article (c) The Committee may recommend to the
shall indicate factors and difficulties, if any, General Assembly to request the
affecting the degree of fulfilment of the Secretary-General to undertake on its
obligations under the present Convention. behalf studies on specific issues relating to
Reports shall also contain sufficient the rights of the child;
information to provide the Committee with a
(d) The Committee may make suggestions
comprehensive understanding of the
and general recommendations based on
implementation of the Convention in the
information received pursuant to
country concerned.
articles 44 and 45 of the present
3. A State Party which has submitted a Convention. Such suggestions and
comprehensive initial report to the Committee general recommendations shall be
need not, in its subsequent reports submitted transmitted to any State Party concerned
in accordance with paragraph 1 (b) of the and reported to the General Assembly,
present article, repeat basic information together with comments, if any, from
previously provided. States Parties.
4. The Committee may request from States
PART III
Parties further information relevant to the
implementation of the Convention. Article 46
5. The Committee shall submit to the The present Convention shall be open for
General Assembly, through the Economic and signature by all States.
227

--- Page 234 ---
Building social protection systems
Article 47 have accepted it, other States Parties still
The present Convention is subject to being bound by the provisions of the present
ratification. Instruments of ratification shall be Convention and any earlier amendments
deposited with the Secretary-General of the which they have accepted.
United Nations.
Article 51
Article 48 1. The Secretary-General of the United
The present Convention shall remain open for Nations shall receive and circulate to all States
accession by any State. The instruments of the text of reservations made by States at the
accession shall be deposited with the time of ratification or accession.
Secretary-General of the United Nations. 2. A reservation incompatible with the object
and purpose of the present Convention shall
Article 49
not be permitted.
1. The present Convention shall enter into
3. Reservations may be withdrawn at any
force on the thirtieth day following the date of
time by notification to that effect addressed to
deposit with the Secretary-General of the
the Secretary-General of the United Nations,
United Nations of the twentieth instrument of
who shall then inform all States. Such
ratification or accession.
notification shall take effect on the date on
2. For each State ratifying or acceding to the which it is received by the Secretary-General
Convention after the deposit of the twentieth
instrument of ratification or accession, the Article 52
Convention shall enter into force on the A State Party may denounce the present
thirtieth day after the deposit by such State of Convention by written notification to the
its instrument of ratification or accession. Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Denunciation becomes effective one year after
Article 50
the date of receipt of the notification by the
1. Any State Party may propose an Secretary-General.
amendment and file it with the Secretary-
Article 53
General of the United Nations. The Secretary-
The Secretary-General of the United Nations
General shall thereupon communicate the
is designated as the depositary of the present
proposed amendment to States Parties, with a
Convention.
request that they indicate whether they favour
a conference of States Parties for the purpose Article 54
of considering and voting upon the proposals. The original of the present Convention, of
In the event that, within four months from the which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French,
date of such communication, at least one third Russian and Spanish texts are equally
of the States Parties favour such a conference, authentic, shall be deposited with the
the Secretary-General shall convene the Secretary-General of the United Nations. In
conference under the auspices of the United witness thereof the undersigned
Nations. Any amendment adopted by a plenipotentiaries, being duly authorized
majority of States Parties present and voting at thereto by their respective Governments, have
the conference shall be submitted to the signed the present Convention.
General Assembly for approval. _________
2. An amendment adopted in accordance 1/ The General Assembly, in its resolution 50/155
with paragraph 1 of the present article shall of 21 December 1995 , approved the amendment
enter into force when it has been approved by to article 43, paragraph 2, of the Convention on
the General Assembly of the United Nations the Rights of the Child, replacing the word “ten”
and accepted by a two-thirds majority of States with the word “eighteen”. The amendment
Parties. entered into force on 18 November 2002 when it
3. When an amendment enters into force, it had been accepted by a two-thirds majority of the
shall be binding on those States Parties which States parties (128 out of 191).
Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, 2006
PREAMBLE (a) Recalling the principles proclaimed in
The States Parties to the present the Charter of the United Nations which
Convention, recognize the inherent dignity and
worth and the equal and inalienable
228

--- Page 235 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
rights of all members of the human (h) Recognizing also that discrimination
family as the foundation of freedom, against any person on the basis of
justice and peace in the world, disability is a violation of the inherent
(b) Recognizing that the United Nations, in dignity and worth of the human person,
the Universal Declaration of Human (i) Recognizing further the diversity of
Rights and in the International persons with disabilities,
Covenants on Human Rights, has (j) Recognizing the need to promote and
proclaimed and agreed that everyone is protect the human rights of all persons
entitled to all the rights and freedoms with disabilities, including those who
set forth therein, without distinction of require more intensive support,
any kind,
(k) Concerned that, despite these various
(c) Reaffirming the universality, instruments and undertakings, persons
indivisibility, interdependence and with disabilities continue to face
interrelatedness of all human rights and barriers in their participation as equal
fundamental freedoms and the need for members of society and violations of
persons with disabilities to be their human rights in all parts of the
guaranteed their full enjoyment without world,
discrimination,
(l) Recognizing the importance of
(d) Recalling the International Covenant on international cooperation for improving
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the living conditions of persons with
the International Covenant on Civil and disabilities in every country, particularly
Political Rights, the International in developing countries,
Convention on the Elimination of All
(m) Recognizing the valued existing and
Forms of Racial Discrimination, the
potential contributions made by
Convention on the Elimination of All
persons with disabilities to the overall
Forms of Discrimination against
well-being and diversity of their
Women, the Convention against
communities, and that the promotion of
Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or
the full enjoyment by persons with
Degrading Treatment or Punishment,
disabilities of their human rights and
the Convention on the Rights of the
fundamental freedoms and of full
Child, and the International Convention
participation by persons with disabilities
on the Protection of the Rights of All
will result in their enhanced sense of
Migrant Workers and Members of Their
belonging and in significant advances
Families,
in the human, social and economic
(e) Recognizing that disability is an development of society and the
evolving concept and that disability eradication of poverty,
results from the interaction between
(n) Recognizing the importance for
persons with impairments and
persons with disabilities of their
attitudinal and environmental barriers
individual autonomy and
that hinders their full and effective
independence, including the freedom to
participation in society on an equal
make their own choices,
basis with others,
(o) Considering that persons with
(f) Recognizing the importance of the
disabilities should have the opportunity
principles and policy guidelines
to be actively involved in decision-
contained in the World Programme of
making processes about policies and
Action concerning Disabled Persons
programmes, including those directly
and in the Standard Rules on the
concerning them,
Equalization of Opportunities for
(p) Concerned about the difficult conditions
Persons with Disabilities in influencing
faced by persons with disabilities who
the promotion, formulation and
are subject to multiple or aggravated
evaluation of the policies, plans,
forms of discrimination on the basis of
programmes and actions at the
race, colour, sex, language, religion,
national, regional and international
political or other opinion, national,
levels to further equalize opportunities
ethnic, indigenous or social origin,
for persons with disabilities,
property, birth, age or other status,
(g) Emphasizing the importance of
(q) Recognizing that women and girls with
mainstreaming disability issues as an
disabilities are often at greater risk,
integral part of relevant strategies of
both within and outside the home of
sustainable development,
violence, injury or abuse, neglect or
229

--- Page 236 ---
Building social protection systems
negligent treatment, maltreatment or redressing the profound social
exploitation, disadvantage of persons with
(r) Recognizing that children with disabilities and promote their
disabilities should have full enjoyment participation in the civil, political,
of all human rights and fundamental economic, social and cultural spheres
freedoms on an equal basis with other with equal opportunities, in both
children, and recalling obligations to developing and developed countries,
that end undertaken by States Parties Have agreed as follows:
to the Convention on the Rights of the
Article 1 – Purpose
Child,
The purpose of the present Convention is
(s) Emphasizing the need to incorporate a
to promote, protect and ensure the full and
gender perspective in all efforts to
equal enjoyment of all human rights and
promote the full enjoyment of human
fundamental freedoms by all persons with
rights and fundamental freedoms by
disabilities, and to promote respect for their
persons with disabilities,
inherent dignity.
(t) Highlighting the fact that the majority of
Persons with disabilities include those who
persons with disabilities live in
have long-term physical, mental,
conditions of poverty, and in this regard
intellectual or sensory impairments which in
recognizing the critical need to address
interaction with various barriers may hinder
the negative impact of poverty on
their full and effective participation in
persons with disabilities,
society on an equal basis with others.
(u) Bearing in mind that conditions of
peace and security based on full Article 2 – Definitions
respect for the purposes and principles For the purposes of the present
contained in the Charter of the United Convention:
Nations and observance of applicable
“Communication” includes languages, dis-
human rights instruments are
play of text, Braille, tactile communication,
indispensable for the full protection of
large print, accessible multimedia as well
persons with disabilities, in particular
as written, audio, plain-language, human-
during armed conflicts and foreign
reader and augmentative and alternative
occupation,
modes, means and formats of communica-
(v) Recognizing the importance of tion, including accessible information and
accessibility to the physical, social, communication technology;
economic and cultural environment, to
“Language” includes spoken and signed
health and education and to information
languages and other forms of non spoken
and communication, in enabling persons
languages;
with disabilities to fully enjoy all human
rights and fundamental freedoms, “Discrimination on the basis of disability”
means any distinction, exclusion or
(w) Realizing that the individual, having
restriction on the basis of disability which
duties to other individuals and to the
has the purpose or effect of impairing or
community to which he or she belongs,
nullifying the recognition, enjoyment or
is under a responsibility to strive for the
exercise, on an equal basis with others, of
promotion and observance of the rights
all human rights and fundamental freedoms
recognized in the International Bill of
in the political, economic, social, cultural,
Human Rights,
civil or any other field. It includes all forms
(x) Convinced that the family is the natural of discrimination, including denial of
and fundamental group unit of society reasonable accommodation;
and is entitled to protection by society
“Reasonable accommodation” means
and the State, and that persons with
necessary and appropriate modification and
disabilities and their family members
adjustments not imposing a disproportionate
should receive the necessary
or undue burden, where needed in a
protection and assistance to enable
particular case, to ensure to persons with
families to contribute towards the full
disabilities the enjoyment or exercise on an
and equal enjoyment of the rights of
equal basis with others of all human rights
persons with disabilities,
and fundamental freedoms;
(y) Convinced that a comprehensive and
“Universal design” means the design of
integral international convention to
products, environments, programmes and
promote and protect the rights and
services to be usable by all people, to the
dignity of persons with disabilities will
greatest extent possible, without the need
make a significant contribution to
230

--- Page 237 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
for adaptation or specialized design. (f) To undertake or promote research and
“Universal design” shall not exclude development of universally designed
assistive devices for particular groups of goods, services, equipment and
persons with disabilities where this is facilities, as defined in article 2 of the
needed. present Convention, which should
require the minimum possible
Article 3 – General principles
adaptation and the least cost to meet
The principles of the present Convention the specific needs of a person with
shall be: disabilities, to promote their availability
(a) Respect for inherent dignity, individual and use, and to promote universal
autonomy including the freedom to design in the development of standards
make one’s own choices, and and guidelines;
independence of persons; (g) To undertake or promote research and
(b) Non-discrimination; development of, and to promote the
(c) Full and effective participation and availability and use of new
inclusion in society; technologies, including information and
communications technologies, mobility
(d) Respect for difference and acceptance
aids, devices and assistive
of persons with disabilities as part of
technologies, suitable for persons with
human diversity and humanity;
disabilities, giving priority to
(e) Equality of opportunity; technologies at an affordable cost;
(f) Accessibility; (h) To provide accessible information to
(g) Equality between men and women; persons with disabilities about mobility
(h) Respect for the evolving capacities of aids, devices and assistive
children with disabilities and respect for technologies, including new
the right of children with disabilities to technologies, as well as other forms of
preserve their identities. assistance, support services and
facilities;
Article 4 – General obligations
(i) To promote the training of
1. States Parties undertake to ensure and professionals and staff working with
promote the full realization of all human persons with disabilities in the rights
rights and fundamental freedoms for all recognized in this Convention so as to
persons with disabilities without better provide the assistance and
discrimination of any kind on the basis of services guaranteed by those rights.
disability. To this end, States Parties
2. With regard to economic, social and
undertake:
cultural rights, each State Party undertakes
(a) To adopt all appropriate legislative, to take measures to the maximum of its
administrative and other measures for available resources and, where needed,
the implementation of the rights within the framework of international
recognized in the present Convention; cooperation, with a view to achieving
(b) To take all appropriate measures, progressively the full realization of these
including legislation, to modify or rights, without prejudice to those
abolish existing laws, regulations, obligations contained in the present
customs and practices that constitute Convention that are immediately applicable
discrimination against persons with according to international law.
disabilities; 3. In the development and
(c) To take into account the protection and implementation of legislation and policies to
promotion of the human rights of implement the present Convention, and in
persons with disabilities in all policies other decision-making processes
and programmes; concerning issues relating to persons with
(d) To refrain from engaging in any act or disabilities, States Parties shall closely
practice that is inconsistent with the consult with and actively involve persons
present Convention and to ensure that with disabilities, including children with
public authorities and institutions act in disabilities, through their representative
conformity with the present Conven- organizations.
tion; 4. Nothing in the present Convention shall
(e) To take all appropriate measures to affect any provisions which are more
eliminate discrimination on the basis of conducive to the realization of the rights of
disability by any person, organization or persons with disabilities and which may be
private enterprise; contained in the law of a State Party or
231

--- Page 238 ---
Building social protection systems
international law in force for that State. 2. In all actions concerning children with
There shall be no restriction upon or disabilities, the best interests of the child
derogation from any of the human rights shall be a primary consideration.
and fundamental freedoms recognized or 3. States Parties shall ensure that
existing in any State Party to the present children with disabilities have the right to
Convention pursuant to law, conventions, express their views freely on all matters
regulation or custom on the pretext that the affecting them, their views being given due
present Convention does not recognize weight in accordance with their age and
such rights or freedoms or that it recognizes maturity, on an equal basis with other
them to a lesser extent. children, and to be provided with disability
5. The provisions of the present and age-appropriate assistance to realize
Convention shall extend to all parts of that right.
federal states without any limitations or
Article 8 – Awareness-raising
exceptions.
1. States Parties undertake to adopt
Article 5 – Equality and non- immediate, effective and appropriate
discrimination measures:
1. States Parties recognize that all (a) To raise awareness throughout society,
persons are equal before and under the law including at the family level, regarding
and are entitled without any discrimination persons with disabilities, and to foster
to the equal protection and equal benefit of respect for the rights and dignity of
the law. persons with disabilities;
2. States Parties shall prohibit all (b) To combat stereotypes, prejudices and
discrimination on the basis of disability and harmful practices relating to persons
guarantee to persons with disabilities equal with disabilities, including those based
and effective legal protection against on sex and age, in all areas of life;
discrimination on all grounds.
(c) To promote awareness of the
3. In order to promote equality and capabilities and contributions of
eliminate discrimination, States Parties persons with disabilities.
shall take all appropriate steps to ensure
2. Measures to this end include:
that reasonable accommodation is
(a) Initiating and maintaining effective
provided.
public awareness campaigns
4. Specific measures which are
designed:
necessary to accelerate or achieve de facto
(i) To nurture receptiveness to the
equality of persons with disabilities shall not
rights of persons with disabilities;
be considered discrimination under the
terms of the present Convention. (ii) To promote positive perceptions
and greater social awareness
Article 6 – Women with disabilities towards persons with disabilities;
1. States Parties recognize that women (iii) To promote recognition of the skills,
and girls with disabilities are subject to merits and abilities of persons with
multiple discrimination, and in this regard disabilities, and of their
shall take measures to ensure the full and contributions to the workplace and
equal enjoyment by them of all human the labour market;
rights and fundamental freedoms.
(b) Fostering at all levels of the education
2. States Parties shall take all appropriate system, including in all children from an
measures to ensure the full development, early age, an attitude of respect for the
advancement and empowerment of rights of persons with disabilities;
women, for the purpose of guaranteeing
(c) Encouraging all organs of the media to
them the exercise and enjoyment of the
portray persons with disabilities in a
human rights and fundamental freedoms
manner consistent with the purpose of
set out in the present Convention.
the present Convention;
Article 7 – Children with disabilities (d) Promoting awareness-training pro-
1. States Parties shall take all necessary grammes regarding persons with disa-
measures to ensure the full enjoyment by bilities and the rights of persons with
children with disabilities of all human rights disabilities.
and fundamental freedoms on an equal
Article 9 – Accessibility
basis with other children.
1. To enable persons with disabilities to
live independently and participate fully in all
232

--- Page 239 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
aspects of life, States Parties shall take systems become accessible at minimum
appropriate measures to ensure to persons cost.
with disabilities access, on an equal basis
Article 10 – Right to life
with others, to the physical environment, to
transportation, to information and States Parties reaffirm that every human
communications, including information and being has the inherent right to life and shall
communications technologies and take all necessary measures to ensure its
systems, and to other facilities and services effective enjoyment by persons with
open or provided to the public, both in disabilities on an equal basis with others.
urban and in rural areas. These measures,
Article 11 – Situations of risk and
which shall include the identification and
humanitarian emergencies
elimination of obstacles and barriers to
accessibility, shall apply to, inter alia: States Parties shall take, in accordance
with their obligations under international
(a) Buildings, roads, transportation and
law, including international humanitarian
other indoor and outdoor facilities,
law and international human rights law, all
including schools, housing, medical
necessary measures to ensure the
facilities and workplaces;
protection and safety of persons with
(b) Information, communications and other disabilities in situations of risk, including
services, including electronic services situations of armed conflict, humanitarian
and emergency services. emergencies and the occurrence of natural
2. States Parties shall also take disasters.
appropriate measures to:
Article 12 – Equal recognition
(a) Develop, promulgate and monitor the
before the law
implementation of minimum standards
and guidelines for the accessibility of 1. States Parties reaffirm that persons
facilities and services open or provided with disabilities have the right to recognition
to the public; everywhere as persons before the law.
(b) Ensure that private entities that offer 2. States Parties shall recognize that
facilities and services which are open persons with disabilities enjoy legal
or provided to the public take into capacity on an equal basis with others in all
account all aspects of accessibility for aspects of life.
persons with disabilities; 3. States Parties shall take appropriate
(c) Provide training for stakeholders on measures to provide access by persons
accessibility issues facing persons with with disabilities to the support they may
disabilities; require in exercising their legal capacity.
(d) Provide in buildings and other facilities 4. States Parties shall ensure that all
open to the public signage in Braille measures that relate to the exercise of legal
and in easy to read and understand capacity provide for appropriate and
forms; effective safeguards to prevent abuse in
accordance with international human rights
(e) Provide forms of live assistance and
law. Such safeguards shall ensure that
intermediaries, including guides,
measures relating to the exercise of legal
readers and professional sign language
capacity respect the rights, will and
interpreters, to facilitate accessibility to
preferences of the person, are free of
buildings and other facilities open to the
conflict of interest and undue influence, are
public;
proportional and tailored to the person’s
(f) Promote other appropriate forms of circumstances, apply for the shortest time
assistance and support to persons with possible and are subject to regular review
disabilities to ensure their access to by a competent, independent and impartial
information; authority or judicial body. The safeguards
(g) Promote access for persons with shall be proportional to the degree to which
disabilities to new information and such measures affect the person’s rights
communications technologies and and interests.
systems, including the Internet; 5. Subject to the provisions of this article,
(h) Promote the design, development, States Parties shall take all appropriate and
production and distribution of accessible effective measures to ensure the equal
information and communications right of persons with disabilities to own or
technologies and systems at an early inherit property, to control their own
stage, so that these technologies and financial affairs and to have equal access to
bank loans, mortgages and other forms of
233

--- Page 240 ---
Building social protection systems
financial credit, and shall ensure that Article 16 – Freedom from exploitation,
persons with disabilities are not arbitrarily violence and abuse
deprived of their property. 1. States Parties shall take all appropriate
legislative, administrative, social,
Article 13 – Access to justice
educational and other measures to protect
1. States Parties shall ensure effective
persons with disabilities, both within and
access to justice for persons with
outside the home, from all forms of
disabilities on an equal basis with others,
exploitation, violence and abuse, including
including through the provision of
their gender-based aspects.
procedural and age-appropriate
2. States Parties shall also take all
accommodations, in order to facilitate their
appropriate measures to prevent all forms
effective role as direct and indirect
of exploitation, violence and abuse by
participants, including as witnesses, in all
ensuring, inter alia, appropriate forms of
legal proceedings, including at investigative
gender- and age-sensitive assistance and
and other preliminary stages.
support for persons with disabilities and
2. In order to help to ensure effective
their families and caregivers, including
access to justice for persons with
through the provision of information and
disabilities, States Parties shall promote
education on how to avoid, recognize and
appropriate training for those working in the
report instances of exploitation, violence
field of administration of justice, including
and abuse. States Parties shall ensure that
police and prison staff.
protection services are age-, gender- and
Article 14 – Liberty and security disability-sensitive.
of the person 3. In order to prevent the occurrence of all
1. States Parties shall ensure that forms of exploitation, violence and abuse,
persons with disabilities, on an equal basis States Parties shall ensure that all facilities
with others: and programmes designed to serve
persons with disabilities are effectively
(a) Enjoy the right to liberty and security of
monitored by independent authorities.
person;
4. States Parties shall take all appropriate
(b) Are not deprived of their liberty
measures to promote the physical,
unlawfully or arbitrarily, and that any
cognitive and psychological recovery,
deprivation of liberty is in conformity
rehabilitation and social reintegration of
with the law, and that the existence of a
persons with disabilities who become
disability shall in no case justify a
victims of any form of exploitation, violence
deprivation of liberty.
or abuse, including through the provision of
2. States Parties shall ensure that if protection services. Such recovery and
persons with disabilities are deprived of reintegration shall take place in an
their liberty through any process, they are, environment that fosters the health,
on an equal basis with others, entitled to welfare, self-respect, dignity and autonomy
guarantees in accordance with international of the person and takes into account
human rights law and shall be treated in gender- and age-specific needs.
compliance with the objectives and
5. States Parties shall put in place
principles of this Convention, including by
effective legislation and policies, including
provision of reasonable accommodation.
women- and child-focused legislation and
Article 15 – Freedom from torture or policies, to ensure that instances of
cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment exploitation, violence and abuse against
or punishment persons with disabilities are identified,
investigated and, where appropriate,
1. No one shall be subjected to torture or
prosecuted.
to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or
punishment. In particular, no one shall be Article 17 – Protecting the integrity
subjected without his or her free consent to of the person
medical or scientific experimentation.
Every person with disabilities has a right to
2. States Parties shall take all effective respect for his or her physical and mental
legislative, administrative, judicial or other integrity on an equal basis with others.
measures to prevent persons with
disabilities, on an equal basis with others, Article 18 – Liberty of movement
from being subjected to torture or cruel, and nationality
inhuman or degrading treatment or 1. States Parties shall recognize the
punishment. rights of persons with disabilities to liberty
234

--- Page 241 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
of movement, to freedom to choose their Article 20 – Personal mobility
residence and to a nationality, on an equal States Parties shall take effective
basis with others, including by ensuring that measures to ensure personal mobility with
persons with disabilities: the greatest possible independence for
(a) Have the right to acquire and change a persons with disabilities, including by:
nationality and are not deprived of their (a) Facilitating the personal mobility of
nationality arbitrarily or on the basis of persons with disabilities in the manner
disability; and at the time of their choice, and at
(b) Are not deprived, on the basis of affordable cost;
disability, of their ability to obtain, (b) Facilitating access by persons with
possess and utilize documentation of disabilities to quality mobility aids,
their nationality or other documentation devices, assistive technologies and
of identification, or to utilize relevant forms of live assistance and
processes such as immigration intermediaries, including by making
proceedings, that may be needed to them available at affordable cost;
facilitate exercise of the right to liberty
(c) Providing training in mobility skills to
of movement;
persons with disabilities and to
(c) Are free to leave any country, including specialist staff working with persons
their own; with disabilities;
(d) Are not deprived, arbitrarily or on the (d) Encouraging entities that produce
basis of disability, of the right to enter mobility aids, devices and assistive
their own country. technologies to take into account all
2. Children with disabilities shall be aspects of mobility for persons with
registered immediately after birth and shall disabilities.
have the right from birth to a name, the right
Article 21 – Freedom of expression and
to acquire a nationality and, as far as
opinion, and access to information
possible, the right to know and be cared for
by their parents. States Parties shall take all appropriate
measures to ensure that persons with
Article 19 – Living independently and disabilities can exercise the right to
being included in the community freedom of expression and opinion,
States Parties to this Convention recognize including the freedom to seek, receive and
the equal right of all persons with impart information and ideas on an equal
disabilities to live in the community, with basis with others and through all forms of
choices equal to others, and shall take communication of their choice, as defined
effective and appropriate measures to in article 2 of the present Convention,
facilitate full enjoyment by persons with including by:
disabilities of this right and their full (a) Providing information intended for the
inclusion and participation in the general public to persons with
community, including by ensuring that: disabilities in accessible formats and
(a) Persons with disabilities have the technologies appropriate to different
opportunity to choose their place of kinds of disabilities in a timely manner
residence and where and with whom and without additional cost;
they live on an equal basis with others (b) Accepting and facilitating the use of
and are not obliged to live in a particular sign languages, Braille, augmentative
living arrangement; and alternative communication, and all
(b) Persons with disabilities have access to other accessible means, modes and
a range of in-home, residential and formats of communication of their
other community support services, choice by persons with disabilities in
including personal assistance official interactions;
necessary to support living and (c) Urging private entities that provide
inclusion in the community, and to services to the general public, including
prevent isolation or segregation from through the Internet, to provide
the community; information and services in accessible
(c) Community services and facilities for and usable formats for persons with
the general population are available on disabilities;
an equal basis to persons with (d) Encouraging the mass media, including
disabilities and are responsive to their providers of information through the
needs.
235

--- Page 242 ---
Building social protection systems
Internet, to make their services realizing these rights, and to prevent
accessible to persons with disabilities; concealment, abandonment, neglect and
(e) Recognizing and promoting the use of segregation of children with disabilities,
sign languages. States Parties shall undertake to provide
early and comprehensive information,
Article 22 – Respect for privacy services and support to children with
1. No person with disabilities, regardless disabilities and their families.
of place of residence or living arrange- 4. States Parties shall ensure that a child
ments, shall be subjected to arbitrary or un- shall not be separated from his or her
lawful interference with his or her privacy, parents against their will, except when
family, home or correspondence or other competent authorities subject to judicial
types of communication or to unlawful at- review determine, in accordance with
tacks on his or her honour and reputation. applicable law and procedures, that such
Persons with disabilities have the right to separation is necessary for the best
the protection of the law against such inter- interests of the child. In no case shall a child
ference or attacks. be separated from parents on the basis of
2. States Parties shall protect the privacy a disability of either the child or one or both
of personal, health and rehabilitation of the parents.
information of persons with disabilities on 5. States Parties shall, where the
an equal basis with others. immediate family is unable to care for a
child with disabilities, undertake every effort
Article 23 – Respect for home and
to provide alternative care within the wider
the family
family, and failing that, within the
1. States Parties shall take effective and community in a family setting.
appropriate measures to eliminate
discrimination against persons with Article 24 – Education
disabilities in all matters relating to 1. States Parties recognize the right of
marriage, family, parenthood and persons with disabilities to education. With
relationships, on an equal basis with others, a view to realizing this right without
so as to ensure that: discrimination and on the basis of equal
(a) The right of all persons with disabilities opportunity, States Parties shall ensure an
who are of marriageable age to marry inclusive education system at all levels and
and to found a family on the basis of life long learning directed to:
free and full consent of the intending (a) The full development of human
spouses is recognized; potential and sense of dignity and self-
(b) The rights of persons with disabilities to worth, and the strengthening of respect
decide freely and responsibly on the for human rights, fundamental
number and spacing of their children freedoms and human diversity;
and to have access to age-appropriate (b) The development by persons with
information, reproductive and family disabilities of their personality, talents
planning education are recognized, and and creativity, as well as their mental
the means necessary to enable them to and physical abilities, to their fullest
exercise these rights are provided; potential;
(c) Persons with disabilities, including (c) Enabling persons with disabilities to
children, retain their fertility on an equal participate effectively in a free society.
basis with others.
2. In realizing this right, States Parties
2. States Parties shall ensure the rights shall ensure that:
and responsibilities of persons with
(a) Persons with disabilities are not
disabilities, with regard to guardianship,
excluded from the general education
wardship, trusteeship, adoption of children
system on the basis of disability, and
or similar institutions, where these concepts
that children with disabilities are not
exist in national legislation; in all cases the
excluded from free and compulsory
best interests of the child shall be
primary education, or from secondary
paramount. States Parties shall render
education, on the basis of disability;
appropriate assistance to persons with
(b) Persons with disabilities can access an
disabilities in the performance of their child-
inclusive, quality and free primary
rearing responsibilities.
education and secondary education on
3. States Parties shall ensure that
an equal basis with others in the
children with disabilities have equal rights
communities in which they live;
with respect to family life. With a view to
236

--- Page 243 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
(c) Reasonable accommodation of the Article 25 – Health
individual’s requirements is provided; States Parties recognize that persons with
(d) Persons with disabilities receive the disabilities have the right to the enjoyment
support required, within the general of the highest attainable standard of health
education system, to facilitate their without discrimination on the basis of disa-
effective education; bility. States Parties shall take all appropri-
(e) Effective individualized support ate measures to ensure access for persons
measures are provided in with disabilities to health services that are
environments that maximize academic gender-sensitive, including health-related
and social development, consistent rehabilitation. In particular, States Parties
with the goal of full inclusion. shall:
3. States Parties shall enable persons (a) Provide persons with disabilities with the
with disabilities to learn life and social same range, quality and standard of free
development skills to facilitate their full and or affordable health care and
equal participation in education and as programmes as provided to other
members of the community. To this end, persons, including in the area of sexual
States Parties shall take appropriate and reproductive health and population-
measures, including: based public health programmes;
(a) Facilitating the learning of Braille, (b) Provide those health services needed
alternative script, augmentative and by persons with disabilities specifically
alternative modes, means and formats because of their disabilities, including
of communication and orientation and early identification and intervention as
mobility skills, and facilitating peer appropriate, and services designed to
support and mentoring; minimize and prevent further
disabilities, including among children
(b) Facilitating the learning of sign
and older persons;
language and the promotion of the
linguistic identity of the deaf (c) Provide these health services as close
community; as possible to people’s own communi-
ties, including in rural areas;
(c) Ensuring that the education of persons,
and in particular children, who are (d) Require health professionals to provide
blind, deaf or deafblind, is delivered in care of the same quality to persons with
the most appropriate languages and disabilities as to others, including on
modes and means of communication the basis of free and informed consent
for the individual, and in environments by, inter alia, raising awareness of the
which maximize academic and social human rights, dignity, autonomy and
development. needs of persons with disabilities
through training and the promulgation
4. In order to help ensure the realization
of ethical standards for public and
of this right, States Parties shall take
private health care;
appropriate measures to employ teachers,
including teachers with disabilities, who are (e) Prohibit discrimination against persons
qualified in sign language and/or Braille, with disabilities in the provision of
and to train professionals and staff who health insurance, and life insurance
work at all levels of education. Such training where such insurance is permitted by
shall incorporate disability awareness and national law, which shall be provided in
the use of appropriate augmentative and a fair and reasonable manner;
alternative modes, means and formats of (f) Prevent discriminatory denial of health
communication, educational techniques care or health services or food and
and materials to support persons with fluids on the basis of disability.
disabilities.
Article 26 – Habilitation and
5. States Parties shall ensure that
rehabilitation
persons with disabilities are able to access
1. States Parties shall take effective and
general tertiary education, vocational
appropriate measures, including through
training, adult education and lifelong
peer support, to enable persons with
learning without discrimination and on an
disabilities to attain and maintain maximum
equal basis with others. To this end, States
independence, full physical, mental, social
Parties shall ensure that reasonable
and vocational ability, and full inclusion and
accommodation is provided to persons with
participation in all aspects of life. To that
disabilities.
end, States Parties shall organize,
strengthen and extend comprehensive
237

--- Page 244 ---
Building social protection systems
habilitation and rehabilitation services and (d) Enable persons with disabilities to have
programmes, particularly in the areas of effective access to general technical
health, employment, education and social and vocational guidance programmes,
services, in such a way that these services placement services and vocational and
and programmes: continuing training;
(a) Begin at the earliest possible stage, (e) Promote employment opportunities
and are based on the multidisciplinary and career advancement for persons
assessment of individual needs and with disabilities in the labour market, as
strengths; well as assistance in finding, obtaining,
(b) Support participation and inclusion in maintaining and returning to
the community and all aspects of employment;
society, are voluntary, and are (f) Promote opportunities for self-
available to persons with disabilities as employment, entrepreneurship, the
close as possible to their own development of cooperatives and
communities, including in rural areas. starting one’s own business;
2. States Parties shall promote the (g) Employ persons with disabilities in the
development of initial and continuing public sector;
training for professionals and staff working (h) Promote the employment of persons
in habilitation and rehabilitation services. with disabilities in the private sector
3. States Parties shall promote the through appropriate policies and
availability, knowledge and use of assistive measures, which may include affirma-
devices and technologies, designed for tive action programmes, incentives and
persons with disabilities, as they relate to other measures;
habilitation and rehabilitation. (i) Ensure that reasonable accommoda-
tion is provided to persons with disabil-
Article 27 – Work and employment
ities in the workplace;
1. States Parties recognize the right of
(j) Promote the acquisition by persons
persons with disabilities to work, on an
with disabilities of work experience in
equal basis with others; this includes the
the open labour market;
right to the opportunity to gain a living by
work freely chosen or accepted in a labour (k) Promote vocational and professional
market and work environment that is open, rehabilitation, job retention and return-
inclusive and accessible to persons with to-work programmes for persons with
disabilities. States Parties shall safeguard disabilities.
and promote the realization of the right to 2. States Parties shall ensure that
work, including for those who acquire a persons with disabilities are not held in
disability during the course of employment, slavery or in servitude, and are protected,
by taking appropriate steps, including on an equal basis with others, from forced
through legislation, to, inter alia: or compulsory labour.
(a) Prohibit discrimination on the basis of
Article 28 – Adequate standard of living
disability with regard to all matters
and social protection
concerning all forms of employment,
1. States Parties recognize the right of
including conditions of recruitment,
persons with disabilities to an adequate
hiring and employment, continuance of
standard of living for themselves and their
employment, career advancement and
families, including adequate food, clothing
safe and healthy working conditions;
and housing, and to the continuous
(b) Protect the rights of persons with
improvement of living conditions, and shall
disabilities, on an equal basis with
take appropriate steps to safeguard and
others, to just and favourable
promote the realization of this right without
conditions of work, including equal
discrimination on the basis of disability.
opportunities and equal remuneration
2. States Parties recognize the right of
for work of equal value, safe and
persons with disabilities to social protection
healthy working conditions, including
and to the enjoyment of that right without
protection from harassment, and the
discrimination on the basis of disability, and
redress of grievances;
shall take appropriate steps to safeguard
(c) Ensure that persons with disabilities
and promote the realization of this right,
are able to exercise their labour and
including measures:
trade union rights on an equal basis
(a) To ensure equal access by persons
with others;
with disabilities to clean water services,
238

--- Page 245 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
and to ensure access to appropriate (a) Promote actively an environment in
and affordable services, devices and which persons with disabilities can
other assistance for disability-related effectively and fully participate in the
needs; conduct of public affairs, without
(b) To ensure access by persons with discrimination and on an equal basis
disabilities, in particular women and with others, and encourage their
girls with disabilities and older persons participation in public affairs, including:
with disabilities, to social protection (i) Participation in non-governmental
programmes and poverty reduction organizations and associations
programmes; concerned with the public and
(c) To ensure access by persons with political life of the country, and in
disabilities and their families living in the activities and administration of
situations of poverty to assistance from political parties;
the State with disability-related (ii) Forming and joining organizations
expenses, including adequate training, of persons with disabilities to
counselling, financial assistance and represent persons with disabilities
respite care; at international, national, regional
(d) To ensure access by persons with dis- and local levels.
abilities to public housing programmes;
Article 30 – Participation in cultural life,
(e) To ensure equal access by persons recreation, leisure and sport
with disabilities to retirement benefits
1. States Parties recognize the right of
and programmes.
persons with disabilities to take part on an
Article 29 – Participation in political equal basis with others in cultural life, and
and public life shall take all appropriate measures to
ensure that persons with disabilities:
States Parties shall guarantee to persons
with disabilities political rights and the (a) Enjoy access to cultural materials in
opportunity to enjoy them on an equal basis accessible formats;
with others, and shall undertake to: (b) Enjoy access to television
(a) Ensure that persons with disabilities programmes, films, theatre and other
can effectively and fully participate in cultural activities, in accessible formats;
political and public life on an equal (c) Enjoy access to places for cultural
basis with others, directly or through performances or services, such as
freely chosen representatives, theatres, museums, cinemas, libraries
including the right and opportunity for and tourism services, and, as far as
persons with disabilities to vote and be possible, enjoy access to monuments
elected, inter alia, by: and sites of national cultural
(i) Ensuring that voting procedures, importance.
facilities and materials are 2. States Parties shall take appropriate
appropriate, accessible and easy to measures to enable persons with
understand and use; disabilities to have the opportunity to
(ii) Protecting the right of persons with develop and utilize their creative, artistic
disabilities to vote by secret ballot and intellectual potential, not only for their
in elections and public referendums own benefit, but also for the enrichment of
without intimidation, and to stand society.
for elections, to effectively hold 3. States Parties shall take all appropriate
office and perform all public steps, in accordance with international law,
functions at all levels of to ensure that laws protecting intellectual
government, facilitating the use of property rights do not constitute an
assistive and new technologies unreasonable or discriminatory barrier to
where appropriate; access by persons with disabilities to
(iii) Guaranteeing the free expression cultural materials.
of the will of persons with 4. Persons with disabilities shall be
disabilities as electors and to this entitled, on an equal basis with others, to
end, where necessary, at their recognition and support of their specific
request, allowing assistance in cultural and linguistic identity, including sign
voting by a person of their own languages and deaf culture.
choice; 5. With a view to enabling persons with
disabilities to participate on an equal basis
239

--- Page 246 ---
Building social protection systems
with others in recreational, leisure and 3. States Parties shall assume responsi-
sporting activities, States Parties shall take bility for the dissemination of these sta-
appropriate measures: tistics and ensure their accessibility to
(a) To encourage and promote the persons with disabilities and others.
participation, to the fullest extent
Article 32 – International cooperation
possible, of persons with disabilities in
1. States Parties recognize the
mainstream sporting activities at all
importance of international cooperation and
levels;
its promotion, in support of national efforts
(b) To ensure that persons with disabilities
for the realization of the purpose and
have an opportunity to organize,
objectives of the present Convention, and
develop and participate in disability-
will undertake appropriate and effective
specific sporting and recreational
measures in this regard, between and
activities and, to this end, encourage
among States and, as appropriate, in
the provision, on an equal basis with
partnership with relevant international and
others, of appropriate instruction,
regional organizations and civil society, in
training and resources;
particular organizations of persons with
(c) To ensure that persons with disabilities disabilities. Such measures could include,
have access to sporting, recreational inter alia:
and tourism venues;
(a) Ensuring that international cooperation,
(d) To ensure that children with disabilities including international development
have equal access with other children programmes, is inclusive of and
to participation in play, recreation and accessible to persons with disabilities;
leisure and sporting activities, including
(b) Facilitating and supporting capacity-
those activities in the school system;
building, including through the
(e) To ensure that persons with disabilities exchange and sharing of information,
have access to services from those in- experiences, training programmes and
volved in the organization of recrea- best practices;
tional, tourism, leisure and sporting ac-
(c) Facilitating cooperation in research and
tivities.
access to scientific and technical
Article 31 – Statistics and data knowledge;
collection (d) Providing, as appropriate, technical
1. States Parties undertake to collect and economic assistance, including by
appropriate information, including statistical facilitating access to and sharing of
and research data, to enable them to accessible and assistive technologies,
formulate and implement policies to give and through the transfer of
effect to the present Convention. The technologies.
process of collecting and maintaining this 2. The provisions of this article are without
information shall: prejudice to the obligations of each State
(a) Comply with legally established Party to fulfil its obligations under the
safeguards, including legislation on present Convention.
data protection, to ensure
Article 33 – National implementation
confidentiality and respect for the
and monitoring
privacy of persons with disabilities;
1. States Parties, in accordance with their
(b) Comply with internationally accepted
system of organization, shall designate one
norms to protect human rights and
or more focal points within government for
fundamental freedoms and ethical
matters relating to the implementation of
principles in the collection and use of
the present Convention, and shall give due
statistics.
consideration to the establishment or
2. The information collected in designation of a coordination mechanism
accordance with this article shall be within government to facilitate related
disaggregated, as appropriate, and used to action in different sectors and at different
help assess the implementation of States levels.
Parties’ obligations under the present
2. States Parties shall, in accordance with
Convention and to identify and address the
their legal and administrative systems,
barriers faced by persons with disabilities in
maintain, strengthen, designate or
exercising their rights.
establish within the State Party, a
framework, including one or more
independent mechanisms, as appropriate,
240

--- Page 247 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
to promote, protect and monitor election, the Secretary-General of the
implementation of the present Convention. United Nations shall address a letter to the
When designating or establishing such a States Parties inviting them to submit the
mechanism, States Parties shall take into nominations within two months. The
account the principles relating to the status Secretary-General shall subsequently
and functioning of national institutions for prepare a list in alphabetical order of all
protection and promotion of human rights. persons thus nominated, indicating the
3. Civil society, in particular persons with State Parties which have nominated them,
disabilities and their representative and shall submit it to the States Parties to
organizations, shall be involved and the present Convention.
participate fully in the monitoring process. 7. The members of the Committee shall
be elected for a term of four years. They
Article 34 – Committee on the Rights
shall be eligible for re-election once.
of Persons with Disabilities
However, the term of six of the members
1. There shall be established a elected at the first election shall expire at
Committee on the Rights of Persons with the end of two years; immediately after the
Disabilities (hereafter referred to as “the first election, the names of these six
Committee”), which shall carry out the members shall be chosen by lot by the
functions hereinafter provided. chairperson of the meeting referred to in
2. The Committee shall consist, at the paragraph 5 of this article.
time of entry into force of the present 8. The election of the six additional
Convention, of twelve experts. After an members of the Committee shall be held on
additional sixty ratifications or accessions the occasion of regular elections, in
to the Convention, the membership of the accordance with the relevant provisions of
Committee shall increase by six members, this article.
attaining a maximum number of eighteen
9. If a member of the Committee dies or
members.
resigns or declares that for any other cause
3. The members of the Committee shall she or he can no longer perform her or his
serve in their personal capacity and shall be duties, the State Party which nominated the
of high moral standing and recognized member shall appoint another expert
competence and experience in the field possessing the qualifications and meeting
covered by the present Convention. When the requirements set out in the relevant
nominating their candidates, States Parties provisions of this article, to serve for the
are invited to give due consideration to the remainder of the term.
provision set out in article 4.3 of the present
10. The Committee shall establish its own
Convention.
rules of procedure.
4. The members of the Committee shall
11. The Secretary-General of the United
be elected by States Parties, consideration
Nations shall provide the necessary staff
being given to equitable geographical
and facilities for the effective performance
distribution, representation of the different
of the functions of the Committee under the
forms of civilization and of the principal
present Convention, and shall convene its
legal systems, balanced gender
initial meeting.
representation and participation of experts
12. With the approval of the General
with disabilities.
Assembly, the members of the Committee
5. The members of the Committee shall
established under the present Convention
be elected by secret ballot from a list of
shall receive emoluments from United
persons nominated by the States Parties
Nations resources on such terms and
from among their nationals at meetings of
conditions as the Assembly may decide,
the Conference of States Parties. At those
having regard to the importance of the
meetings, for which two thirds of States
Committee’s responsibilities.
Parties shall constitute a quorum, the
13. The members of the Committee shall
persons elected to the Committee shall be
be entitled to the facilities, privileges and
those who obtain the largest number of
immunities of experts on mission for the
votes and an absolute majority of the votes
United Nations as laid down in the relevant
of the representatives of States Parties
sections of the Convention on the
present and voting.
Privileges and Immunities of the United
6. The initial election shall be held no later
Nations.
than six months after the date of entry into
force of the present Convention. At least
four months before the date of each
241

--- Page 248 ---
Building social protection systems
Article 35 – Reports by the provisions of paragraph 1 of this article
States Parties will apply.
1. Each State Party shall submit to the 3. The Secretary-General of the United
Committee, through the Secretary-General Nations shall make available the reports to
of the United Nations, a comprehensive all States Parties.
report on measures taken to give effect to 4. States Parties shall make their reports
its obligations under the present widely available to the public in their own
Convention and on the progress made in countries and facilitate access to the
that regard, within two years after the entry suggestions and general recommendations
into force of the present Convention for the relating to these reports.
State Party concerned.
5. The Committee shall transmit, as it may
2. Thereafter, States Parties shall submit consider appropriate, to the specialized
subsequent reports at least every four agencies, funds and programmes of the
years and further whenever the Committee United Nations, and other competent
so requests. bodies, reports from States Parties in order
3. The Committee shall decide any to address a request or indication of a need
guidelines applicable to the content of the for technical advice or assistance contained
reports. therein, along with the Committee’s
4. A State Party which has submitted a observations and recommendations, if any,
comprehensive initial report to the on these requests or indications.
Committee need not, in its subsequent
Article 37 – Cooperation between
reports, repeat information previously
States Parties and the Committee
provided. When preparing reports to the
1. Each State Party shall cooperate with
Committee, States Parties are invited to
the Committee and assist its members in
consider doing so in an open and
the fulfilment of their mandate.
transparent process and to give due
consideration to the provision set out in 2. In its relationship with States Parties,
article 4.3 of the present Convention. the Committee shall give due consideration
to ways and means of enhancing national
5. Reports may indicate factors and
capacities for the implementation of the
difficulties affecting the degree of fulfilment
present Convention, including through
of obligations under the present
international cooperation.
Convention.
Article 38 – Relationship of
Article 36 – Consideration
the Committee with other bodies
of reports
In order to foster the effective
1. Each report shall be considered by the
implementation of the present Convention
Committee, which shall make such
and to encourage international cooperation
suggestions and general recommendations
in the field covered by the present
on the report as it may consider appropriate
Convention:
and shall forward these to the State Party
concerned. The State Party may respond (a) The specialized agencies and other
with any information it chooses to the United Nations organs shall be entitled
Committee. The Committee may request to be represented at the consideration
further information from States Parties of the implementation of such
relevant to the implementation of the provisions of the present Convention as
present Convention. fall within the scope of their mandate.
The Committee may invite the
2. If a State Party is significantly overdue
specialized agencies and other
in the submission of a report, the
competent bodies as it may consider
Committee may notify the State Party
appropriate to provide expert advice on
concerned of the need to examine the
the implementation of the Convention
implementation of the present Convention
in areas falling within the scope of their
in that State Party, on the basis of reliable
respective mandates. The Committee
information available to the Committee, if
may invite specialized agencies and
the relevant report is not submitted within
other United Nations organs to submit
three months following the notification. The
reports on the implementation of the
Committee shall invite the State Party
Convention in areas falling within the
concerned to participate in such
scope of their activities;
examination. Should the State Party
respond by submitting the relevant report, (b) The Committee, as it discharges its
mandate, shall consult, as appropriate,
242

--- Page 249 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
other relevant bodies instituted by inter- Article 44 – Regional integration
national human rights treaties, with a organizations
view to ensuring the consistency of 1. “Regional integration organization”
their respective reporting guidelines, shall mean an organization constituted by
suggestions and general recommenda- sovereign States of a given region, to which
tions, and avoiding duplication and its member States have transferred
overlap in the performance of their competence in respect of matters governed
functions. by this Convention. Such organizations
shall declare, in their instruments of formal
Article 39 – Report of
confirmation or accession, the extent of
the Committee
their competence with respect to matters
The Committee shall report every two years
governed by this Convention.
to the General Assembly and to the
Subsequently, they shall inform the
Economic and Social Council on its
depositary of any substantial modification in
activities, and may make suggestions and
the extent of their competence.
general recommendations based on the
2. References to “States Parties” in the
examination of reports and information
present Convention shall apply to such
received from the States Parties. Such
organizations within the limits of their
suggestions and general recommendations
competence.
shall be included in the report of the
Committee together with comments, if any, 3. For the purposes of article 45,
from States Parties. paragraph 1, and article 47, paragraphs 2
and 3, any instrument deposited by a
Article 40 – Conference regional integration organization shall not be
of States Parties counted.
1. The States Parties shall meet regularly 4. Regional integration organizations, in
in a Conference of States Parties in order matters within their competence, may
to consider any matter with regard to the exercise their right to vote in the
implementation of the present Convention. Conference of States Parties, with a
2. No later than six months after the entry number of votes equal to the number of
into force of the present Convention, the their member States that are Parties to this
Conference of the States Parties shall be Convention. Such an organization shall not
convened by the Secretary-General of the exercise its right to vote if any of its member
United Nations. The subsequent meetings States exercises its right, and vice versa.
shall be convened by the Secretary-
Article 45 – Entry into force
General of the United Nations biennially or
upon the decision of the Conference of 1. The present Convention shall enter into
States Parties. force on the thirtieth day after the deposit of
the twentieth instrument of ratification or
Article 41 – Depositary accession.
The Secretary-General of the United 2. For each State or regional integration
Nations shall be the depositary of the organization ratifying, formally confirming
present Convention. or acceding to the Convention after the
deposit of the twentieth such instrument,
Article 42 – Signature
the Convention shall enter into force on the
The present Convention shall be open for thirtieth day after the deposit of its own such
signature by all States and by regional instrument.
integration organizations at United Nations
Headquarters in New York as of 30 March Article 46 – Reservations
2007. 1. Reservations incompatible with the
object and purpose of the present
Article 43 – Consent to be bound
Convention shall not be permitted.
The present Convention shall be subject to
2. Reservations may be withdrawn at any
ratification by signatory States and to
time.
formal confirmation by signatory regional
integration organizations. It shall be open Article 47 – Amendments
for accession by any State or regional
1. Any State Party may propose an
integration organization which has not
amendment to the present Convention and
signed the Convention.
submit it to the Secretary-General of the
United Nations. The Secretary-General
shall communicate any proposed
243

--- Page 250 ---
Building social protection systems
amendments to States Parties, with a thereto by their respective Governments,
request to be notified whether they favour a have signed the present Convention.
conference of States Parties for the Source: Annex 1, Final report of the Ad Hoc
purpose of considering and deciding upon Committee on a Comprehensive and
the proposals. In the event that, within four Integral International Convention on the
months from the date of such Protection and Promotion of the Rights and
communication, at least one third of the Dignity of Persons with Disabilities
States Parties favour such a conference, [A/61/611]
the Secretary-General shall convene the
conference under the auspices of the
United Nations. Any amendment adopted Optional Protocol to the
by a majority of two thirds of the States
Convention on the Rights of
Parties present and voting shall be
submitted by the Secretary-General to the Persons with Disabilities
General Assembly for approval and
The States Parties to the present Protocol
thereafter to all States Parties for
have agreed as follows:
acceptance.
2. An amendment adopted and approved Article 1
in accordance with paragraph 1 of this 1. A State Party to the present Protocol
article shall enter into force on the thirtieth (“State Party”) recognizes the competence
day after the number of instruments of of the Committee on the Rights of Persons
acceptance deposited reaches two thirds of with Disabilities (“the Committee”) to
the number of States Parties at the date of receive and consider communications from
adoption of the amendment. Thereafter, the or on behalf of individuals or groups of
amendment shall enter into force for any individuals subject to its jurisdiction who
State Party on the thirtieth day following the claim to be victims of a violation by that
deposit of its own instrument of State Party of the provisions of the
acceptance. An amendment shall be Convention.
binding only on those States Parties which
2. No communication shall be received by
have accepted it.
the Committee if it concerns a State Party
3. If so decided by the Conference of to the Convention that is not a party to the
States Parties by consensus, an present Protocol.
amendment adopted and approved in
accordance with paragraph 1 of this article Article 2
which relates exclusively to articles 34, 38, The Committee shall consider a communica-
39 and 40 shall enter into force for all States tion inadmissible when:
Parties on the thirtieth day after the number (a) The communication is anonymous;
of instruments of acceptance deposited
(b) The communication constitutes an
reaches two thirds of the number of States
abuse of the right of submission of such
Parties at the date of adoption of the
communications or is incompatible with
amendment.
the provisions of the Convention;
Article 48 – Denunciation (c) The same matter has already been
A State Party may denounce the present examined by the Committee or has
Convention by written notification to the been or is being examined under
Secretary-General of the United Nations. another procedure of international
The denunciation shall become effective investigation or settlement;
one year after the date of receipt of the (d) All available domestic remedies have
notification by the Secretary-General. not been exhausted. This shall not be
the rule where the application of the
Article 49 – Accessible format
remedies is unreasonably prolonged or
The text of the present Convention shall be unlikely to bring effective relief;
made available in accessible formats.
(e) It is manifestly ill-founded or not
Article 50 – Authentic texts sufficiently substantiated; or when
The Arabic, Chinese, English, French, (f) The facts that are the subject of the
Russian and Spanish texts of the present communication occurred prior to the
Convention shall be equally authentic. entry into force of the present Protocol
for the State Party concerned unless
In witness thereof the undersigned
those facts continued after that date.
plenipotentiaries, being duly authorized
244

--- Page 251 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Article 3 4. The State Party concerned shall, within
Subject to the provisions of article 2 of the six months of receiving the findings,
present Protocol, the Committee shall bring comments and recommendations
any communications submitted to it transmitted by the Committee, submit its
confidentially to the attention of the State observations to the Committee.
Party. Within six months, the receiving 5. Such an inquiry shall be conducted
State shall submit to the Committee written confidentially and the cooperation of the
explanations or statements clarifying the State Party shall be sought at all stages of
matter and the remedy, if any, that may the proceedings.
have been taken by that State.
Article 7
Article 4 1. The Committee may invite the State
1. At any time after the receipt of a Party concerned to include in its report
communication and before a determination under article 35 of the Convention details of
on the merits has been reached, the any measures taken in response to an
Committee may transmit to the State Party inquiry conducted under article 6 of the
concerned for its urgent consideration a present Protocol.
request that the State Party take such 2. The Committee may, if necessary, after
interim measures as may be necessary to the end of the period of six months referred
avoid possible irreparable damage to the to in article 6, paragraph 4, invite the State
victim or victims of the alleged violation. Party concerned to inform it of the
2. Where the Committee exercises its measures taken in response to such an
discretion under paragraph 1 of this article, inquiry.
this does not imply a determination on
Article 8
admissibility or on the merits of the
communication. Each State Party may, at the time of
signature or ratification of the present
Article 5 Protocol or accession thereto, declare that
The Committee shall hold closed meetings it does not recognize the competence of the
when examining communications under the Committee provided for in articles 6 and 7.
present Protocol. After examining a
Article 9
communication, the Committee shall
forward its suggestions and The Secretary-General of the United
recommendations, if any, to the State Party Nations shall be the depositary of the
concerned and to the petitioner. present Protocol.
Article 6 Article 10
1. If the Committee receives reliable The present Protocol shall be open for
information indicating grave or systematic signature by signatory States and regional
violations by a State Party of rights set forth integration organizations of the Convention
in the Convention, the Committee shall at United Nations Headquarters in New
invite that State Party to cooperate in the York as of 30 March 2007.
examination of the information and to this Article 11
end submit observations with regard to the The present Protocol shall be subject to
information concerned. ratification by signatory States of the
2. Taking into account any observations present Protocol which have ratified or
that may have been submitted by the State acceded to the Convention. It shall be
Party concerned as well as any other subject to formal confirmation by signatory
reliable information available to it, the regional integration organizations of the
Committee may designate one or more of present Protocol which have formally
its members to conduct an inquiry and to confirmed or acceded to the Convention. It
report urgently to the Committee. Where shall be open for accession by any State or
warranted and with the consent of the State regional integration organization which has
Party, the inquiry may include a visit to its ratified, formally confirmed or acceded to
territory. the Convention and which has not signed
3. After examining the findings of such an the Protocol.
inquiry, the Committee shall transmit these
Article 12
findings to the State Party concerned
together with any comments and 1. “Regional integration organization”
recommendations. shall mean an organization constituted by
sovereign States of a given region, to which
245

--- Page 252 ---
Building social protection systems
its member States have transferred submit it to the Secretary-General of the
competence in respect of matters governed United Nations. The Secretary-General
by the Convention and the present shall communicate any proposed
Protocol. Such organizations shall declare, amendments to States Parties, with a
in their instruments of formal confirmation request to be notified whether they favour a
or accession, the extent of their meeting of States Parties for the purpose of
competence with respect to matters considering and deciding upon the
governed by the Convention and the proposals. In the event that, within four
present Protocol. Subsequently, they shall months from the date of such
inform the depositary of any substantial communication, at least one third of the
modification in the extent of their States Parties favour such a meeting, the
competence. Secretary-General shall convene the
2. References to “States Parties” in the pre- meeting under the auspices of the United
sent Protocol shall apply to such organiza- Nations. Any amendment adopted by a
tions within the limits of their competence. majority of two thirds of the States Parties
present and voting shall be submitted by
3. For the purposes of article 13, para-
the Secretary-General to the General
graph 1, and article 15, paragraph 2, of the
Assembly of the United Nations for
present Protocol, any instrument deposited
approval and thereafter to all States Parties
by a regional integration organization shall
for acceptance.
not be counted.
2. An amendment adopted and approved
4. Regional integration organizations, in
in accordance with paragraph 1 of this
matters within their competence, may
article shall enter into force on the thirtieth
exercise their right to vote in the meeting of
day after the number of instruments of
States Parties, with a number of votes
acceptance deposited reaches two thirds of
equal to the number of their member States
the number of States Parties at the date of
that are Parties to the present Protocol.
adoption of the amendment. Thereafter, the
Such an organization shall not exercise its
amendment shall enter into force for any
right to vote if any of its member States
State Party on the thirtieth day following the
exercises its right, and vice versa.
deposit of its own instrument of
Article 13 acceptance. An amendment shall be
1. Subject to the entry into force of the binding only on those States Parties which
Convention, the present Protocol shall have accepted it.
enter into force on the thirtieth day after the
Article 16
deposit of the tenth instrument of ratification
A State Party may denounce the present
or accession.
Protocol by written notification to the
2. For each State or regional integration
Secretary-General of the United Nations.
organization ratifying, formally confirming
The denunciation shall become effective
or acceding to the present Protocol after the
one year after the date of receipt of the
deposit of the tenth such instrument, the
notification by the Secretary-General.
Protocol shall enter into force on the
thirtieth day after the deposit of its own such Article 17
instrument. The text of the present Protocol shall be
made available in accessible formats.
Article 14
1. Reservations incompatible with the Article 18
object and purpose of the present Protocol The Arabic, Chinese, English, French,
shall not be permitted. Russian and Spanish texts of the present
2. Reservations may be withdrawn at any Protocol shall be equally authentic.
time.
IN WITNESS THEREOF the undersigned
Article 15
plenipotentiaries, being duly authorized
1. Any State Party may propose an
thereto by their respective Governments,
amendment to the present Protocol and
have signed the present Protocol
.
246

--- Page 253 ---
ANNEXES
Annex I. Sustainable Development Goals Relevant to Social Protection
Table 2. Sustainable Development Goals Relevant to Social Protection
Goal Target Indicator
SDG1: End in all its Target 1.3 – Implement nationally appropriate social Indicator 1.3.1 – Proportion of population covered by social protection
forms everywhere protection systems and measures for all, including floors/systems, by sex, distinguishing children, unemployed persons, older
floors, and by 2030 achieve substantial coverage of the persons, persons with disabilities, pregnant women, newborns, work-
poor and the vulnerable. injury victims and the poor and the vulnerable. In
Target 1.a. – Ensure significant mobilization of Indicator 1.a.2 – Proportion of total government spending on essential
te
rn
resources from a variety of sources, including through services (education, health and social protection). a
enhanced development cooperation, in order to provide
tio
n
adequate and predictable means for developing a l
s
countries, in particular least developed countries, to ta
implement programmes and policies to end poverty in all n d
its dimensions. a rd
s
a
SDG3: Ensure healthy Target 3.8 – Achieve universal health coverage, Indicator 3.8.1 – Coverage of essential health services (defined as the n
d
and promote well-being including financial risk protection, access to quality average coverage of essential services based on tracer interventions that h
for all at all ages essential health-care services and access to safe, include reproductive, maternal, newborn and child health, infectious u m
effective, quality and affordable essential medicines and diseases, non-communicable diseases and service capacity and access, a
n
vaccines for all. among the general and the most disadvantaged population). rig
h
Indicator 3.8.2 – Proportion of population with large household ts
expenditures on health as a share of total household expenditure or in
s
income. tru
m
e
n
2
4
ts
7

--- Page 254 ---
2 4 8 G
SD
o
G
a
5
l
: Achieve gender
T
Ta
a
r
r
g
g
e
e
t
t
5 .4 – Recognize and value unpaid care and
I
In
n
d
d
i
i
c
c
a
a
to
to
r
r
5 .4.1 – Proportion of time spent on unpaid domestic and care
B u ild
in
g
equality and empower domestic work through the provision of public services, work, by sex, age and location. s o
all women and girls infrastructure and social protection policies and the c ia
promotion of shared responsibility within the household l
p
and the family as nationally appropriate. ro
te
c
SDG8: Promote Target 8.5 – By 2030, achieve full and productive Indicator 8.5.1 – Average hourly earnings of female and male employees,
tio
n
sustained, inclusive employment and decent work for all women and by occupation, age and persons with disabilities. s
and sustainable men, including for young people and persons with y s
economic growth, full disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value.
I
d
n
is
d
a
ic
b
a
ili
t
t
o
ie
r
s
8
.
.5.2 – Unemployment rate, by sex, age and persons with te
m
and productive s
employment and (re
decent work for all v is
e
d
SDG10: Reduced Target 10.4 – Adopt policies, especially fiscal, wage Indicator 10.4.1 – Labour share of GDP, comprising wages and social )
inequalities within and and social protection policies, and progressively protection transfers.
among countries achieve greater equality.
SDG16: Promote Target 16.6 – Develop effective, accountable and Indicator 16.6.1 – Primary government expenditures as a proportion of
peaceful and inclusive transparent institutions at all levels. original approved budget, by sector (or by budget codes or similar).
societies for
Indicator 16.6.2 – Proportion of the population satisfied with their last
sustainable
experience of public services.
development, provide
access to justice for all
and build effective,
accountable and
inclusive institutions at
all levels

--- Page 255 ---
Annex II. Minimum requirements in ILO social security standards: Overview tables 1
Table 3. Main requirements: ILO social security standards on health protection
Convention No. 102 Convention No. 130 a and Recommendation No. 134 b Recommendation No. 202
Minimum standards Advanced standards Basic protection
What should Any ill health condition, whatever The need for medical care of curative and preventive Any condition requiring health care,
be covered? its cause; pregnancy, childbirth nature. including maternity.
and their consequences.
Who should At least: C.130: All employees, including: At least all residents and children,
be covered? – 50% of all employees, and – apprentices, and their wives and children; or subject to the country’s existing
wives and children; or – categories of the active population forming not international obligations. In
– categories of the less than 75% of whole active population, and te
economically active their wives and children; or rn
a
population (forming not less – prescribed class of residents forming not less than tio
than 20% of all residents, and 75% of all residents. n a
wives and children); or
(Persons already receiving certain social security
l
s
– 50% of all residents. benefits shall also continue to be protected under
ta
n
d
prescribed conditions). a
rd
R.134: In addition: persons in casual employment and s
a
their families, members of employers’ families living in n
d
their house and working for them, all economically
h
active persons and their families, all residents. u m
a
n
rig
h
ts
in
s
tru
m
e
n
2
4
1 The following tables provide a summary of the main parameters found in up-to date ILO social protection conventions and recommendations by branch. ts
9

--- Page 256 ---
2 5 0 C M o in n i v m e u n m tio s n t a N n o d . a 1 r 0 d 2 s C Ad o v n a v n en ce ti d o n s t N an o d . 1 a 3 rd 0 s a and Recommendation No. 134 b R B e a c s o ic m p m ro e t n e d ct a i t o io n n No. 202 B u ild
in
g
What should In case of ill health: general C.130: The medical care required by the person’s Goods and services constituting at least s
o
the benefit be? practitioner care, specialist care at condition, with a view to maintaining, restoring or essential health care, including c
h
a
o
n
s
d
p
s
it
u
a
p
ls
p
,
l i
e
e
s
s
s
,
e
h
n
o
t
s
ia
p
l
i t
m
al
e
iz
d
a
ic
tio
at
n
io
if
n s i
p
m
e
p
rs
r
o
o
n
vi
a
n
l
g
n
h
e
e
e
a
d
l
s
th
, in
a
c
n
l
d
u d
a
i
b
n
i
g
lit
a
y
t
t o
le a
w
s
o
t
r
:
k
g
a
e
n
n
d
e r
a
a
t
l
t e
p
n
ra
d
c
t
t
o
it ioner
m
av
a
a
t
i
e
la
rn
b
i
i
t
li
y
t y
c
,
a
a
r
c
e
c
,
e
m
p
e
ta
e
b
ti
i
n
lit
g
y
a
a
c
n
c
d
e s
q
s
u
i
a
b
l
i
i
l
t
i
y
ty ,
ia
l
p ro
necessary. care, specialist care at hospitals, allied care and criteria; free prenatal and post‑natal te
c
In case of pregnancy, childbirth benefits, essential medical supplies, hospitalization if medical care for the most vulnerable; tio
a
ch
n
i
d
ld
t
b
h
i
e
rt
i
h
r c
a
o
n
n
d
s
p
e
o
q
s
u
t
e
‑n
n
a
c
t
e
a
s
l
:
c
p
a
r
r
e
e
n
b
a
y
ta l, n
R
e
.1
c
3
e
4
ss
:
a
A
r
l
y
s
,
o
d
t
e
h
n
e
t a
s
l
u
c
p
a
p
r
l
e
y o
a
f
n
m
d m
ed
e
ic
d
a
ic
l
a
a
l
i d
re
s
h
(
a
e
b
.g
il
.
it ation. h
p
i
r
g
o
h
v
e
id
r
e
le
d
v
t
e
o
l s
a s
o f
m
p
a
ro
n
t
y
e c
p
t
e
io
o
n
p l
s
e
h
a
o
s
u l
p
d
o
b
s
e
s ible,
n
s y s
medical practitioners and qualified eyeglasses) and services for convalescence. as soon as possible. te
m
midwives, hospitalization if s
necessary. (re
v
What should As long as ill health, or pregnancy C.130: Throughout the contingency. As long as required by the health status
is
e
the benefit and childbirth and their May be limited to 26 weeks where a beneficiary ceases d )
duration be? consequences, persist. May be to belong to the categories of persons protected,
limited to 26 weeks in each case unless he/she is already receiving medical care for a
of sickness. Benefit should not be disease requiring prolonged care, or as long as he/she
suspended while beneficiary is paid a cash sickness benefit.
receives sickness benefits or is
R.134: Throughout the contingency.
treated for a disease recognized
as requiring prolonged care.
What conditions Qualifying period may be C.130: Qualifying period shall be such as not to Persons in need of health care should
can be prescribed as necessary to deprive of the right to benefits persons who normally not face hardship and an increased risk
prescribed for preclude abuse. belong to the category. of poverty due to financial
entitlement R.134: Right to benefit should not be subject to consequences of accessing essential
to a benefit? qualifying period. health care.
Should be defined at national level and
prescribed by law, applying principles of
non-discrimination, responsiveness to
special needs and social inclusion, and
ensuring the rights and dignity of
people.
a Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Convention, 1969. b Medical Care and Sickness Benefits Recommendation, 1959.

--- Page 257 ---
Table 4. Main requirements: ILO social security standards on sickness benefits
Convention No. 102 Convention No. 130 and Recommendation Recommendation No. 202
Minimum standards No. 134 Basic protection
Advanced standards
What should Incapacity to work resulting from C.130: Incapacity to work resulting from sickness At least basic income security for those
be covered? illness that results in the and involving suspension of earnings. who are unable to earn a sufficient income
suspension of income R.134: Also covers periods of absence from work due to sickness.
resulting in loss of earnings due to convalescence,
curative or preventative medical care, rehabilitation
or quarantine, or due to caring for dependants.
Who should At least: C.130: All employees, including: At least all residents of active age, subject
be protected? – 50% of all employees; or – apprentices; or to the country’s existing international
obligations.
– categories of the economically – categories of economically active population
active population (forming not (forming not less than 75% of whole
less than 20% of all economically active population); or In
residents); or – all residents with means under prescribed te rn
– all residents with means threshold. a
under a prescribed threshold
tio
R.134: Extension to persons in casual employment, n
a
members of employers’ families living in their house l
s
and working for them, all economically active ta
n
persons, all residents. d
a
What should Periodic payments: at least 45% of C.130: Periodic payments: at least 60% of reference Benefits in cash or in kind at a level that
rd
s
be the benefit? reference wage. wage; in case of death of the beneficiary, benefit for ensures at least basic income security, so a
n
funeral expenses. as to secure effective access to necessary d
h
R.134: Benefit should be 66.66% of reference wage. goods and services; prevents or alleviates u m
poverty, vulnerability and social exclusion; a
a
b
n
e
d
r e
e
g
n
u
a
la
bl
r
e
ly
s
r
l
e
if
v
e
i e
in
w
d
e
i
d
g
.
n ity. Levels should n
rig
h
ts
in
s
tru
m
e
n
2
5
ts
1

--- Page 258 ---
2 5 2 C M o in n i v m e u n m tio s n t a N n o d . a 1 r 0 d 2 s C N
Ad
o o
v
n .
a
1 v
n
3 e 4 n
c e
ti
d
o n
s tan
N
d
o
a
.
r d
1
s
3 0 and Recommendation R B e a c s o ic m p m ro e t n e d ct a i t o io n n No. 202 B u ild
in
g
s
o
What should As long as the person remains C.130: As long as the person remains unable to As long as the incapacity to earn a c
t
d
h
u
e
r a
b
t
e
io
n
n
e f
b
it
e ?
u
em
na
p
b
lo
le
y m
to
e
e
n
n
t
g
d
a
u
g
e
e
t o
in
il
g
ln
a
e
in
s
f
s
u
;
l e
p
n
os
g
s
a
i
g
b
e
le
i n
w a
g
i
a
ti
i
n
n
g
fu
p
l
e
e
r
m
io
p
d
lo
o
y
f
m
m
e
a
n
x
t d
th
u
r
e
e e
to
d
i
a
lln
ys
e s
b
s
e
;
f ore
sufficient income due to sickness remains.
ia
l
p ro
possible waiting period of max. benefit is paid; benefit duration may be limited to te
c
three days before benefit is paid; 52 weeks in each case of sickness. tio
b
2
e
6
n
w
e
e
fi
e
t
k
d
s
u r
i
a
n
t i
e
o
a
n
c
m
h
a
ca
y
s
b
e
e
o
li
f
m ited to R
sic
.1
k
3
n
4
e
:
s
B
s
e
o
n
r
e
o
f
t
i
h
t s
e
h
r
o
c
u
o
l
n
d
t i
b
n
e
g e
p
n
a
c
id
ie s
fo
c
r
o
fu
v
l
e
l
r
d
e
u
d
r
.
a tion of n
s y s
sickness. te
m
W
ca
h
n
a
b
t
e
c o
p
n
re
d
s
it
c
io
ri
n
b
s
e d
Q
pr
u
e
a
s
l
c
if
r
y
ib
in
e
g
d
p
a
e
s
r i
n
o
e
d
c
m
es
a
s
y
a
b
ry
e
to
C
ne
.1
c
3
e
0
s
:
s a
Q
ry
u a
to
lif y
p
i
r
n
e
g
v e
p
n
e
t
r i
a
o
b
d
u
m
se
a
.
y be prescribed as S
pr
h
e
o
s
u
c
l
r
d
ib
b
e
e
d
d
b
e
y
f i
l
n
a
e
w
d
,
a
a
t
p
n
pl
a
y
t
i
i
n
o
g
n a
p
l
r i
l
n
e
c
v
i
e
p
l
l
,
e
a
s
n
o
d
f
s
(re
v
for entitlement prevent abuse. non-discrimination, responsiveness to is
e
to a benefit? special needs and social inclusion, and d
ensuring the rights and dignity of people.
)

--- Page 259 ---
Table 5. Main requirements: ILO social security standards on unemployment protection
Convention No. 102 Convention No. 168 a and Recommendation Recommendation No. 202
Minimum standards No. 176 b Basic protection
Advanced standards
What should Suspension of earnings due to C.168: Loss of earnings due to inability to find At least basic income security for those
be covered? inability to find suitable suitable employment for capable and available person who are unable to earn sufficient income
employment for capable and actively seeking work. Protection should be extended to in case of unemployment.
available person. loss of earnings due to partial unemployment,
suspension or reduction of earnings due to temporary
suspension of work, as well as part-time workers
seeking full-time work.
R.176: Provides guidance for assessing suitability of
potential employment.
Who should At least: C.168: At least 85% of employees, including public At least all residents of active age,
be protected? –
–
5
a
0
ll
%
re s
o
i
f
d
a
e
l
n
l
t
e
s
m
w
p
it
l
h
o y
m
ee
e
s
a
;
n
o
s
r e
u
m
nd
p
e
lo
r
y
p
e
re
e
s
s
c
a
ri
n
b
d
e d
a p
th
p
r
r
e
e
s
n
h
ti
o
c
l
e
d
s
.
;
C
a
o
ll
v
r
e
e
r
s
a
id
ge
e n
s
t
h
s
o
w
u
i
l
t
d
h
b
m
e
e ans s
in
u
t
b
e
j
r
e
n
c
a
t
t i
t
o
o
n
t
a
h
l
e
o
c
b
o
lig
u
a
n
t
t
i
r
o
y
n
’s
s .
e xisting In
te
under prescribed threshold.
e
1
x
0
t e
lis
n
t
d
e
e
d
d
c
t
a
o
t e
p
g
a
o
rt
r
-
ie
tim
s
e
of
w
p
o
e
r
r
k
s
e
o
r
n
s
s
a
s
n
e
d
e k
a
i
t
n
l
g
e a
w
s
o
t
r
3
k
o
w
f
h
th
o
e
h ave
rn
a tio
never been, or have ceased to be, recognized as n
a
unemployed or covered by unemployment protection l
s
schemes. ta
n
R.176: Coverage should be extended progressively to d
a
all employees as well as to persons experiencing rd
s
hardship during waiting period. a
n
d
What should Periodic payments; at least 45% of C.168: Periodic payments: at least 50% of reference Benefits in cash or in kind at a level that
h
be the benefit? reference wage. wage; or total benefits must guarantee the beneficiary ensures at least basic income security, u m
healthy and reasonable living conditions. so as to secure effective access to a
n
R
ea
.1
rn
7
i
6
n
:
g
F
s
o
fr
r
o
p
m
a r
t
t
h
ia
e
l e
p
m
ar
p
t-
l
t
o
im
ym
e
e
w
n
o
t:
r k
to
s
ta
h
l
o
b
u
e
ld
n e
re
fi
a
t
c
a
h
n d
a sum
n
o
e
r
c
a
e
ll
s
e
s
v
a
ia
r
t
y
e s
g o
p
o
o
d
v
s
e r
a
ty
n
,
d
v
s
u
e
ln
rv
e
i
r
c
a
e
b
s
i
;
li t
p
y
r e
a
v
n
e
d
n ts rig
h
b
am
et
o
w
u
e
n
e
t
n
o
p
f
r
f
e
u
v
ll
io
u
u
n
s
e m
ea
p
r
lo
ni
y
n
m
g
e
s
n
fr
t
o
b
m
e n
fu
e
l
f
l
i
-
t
t
,
i m
or
e
b
w
e
o
c
r
a
k
l c
a
u
n
l
d
a t
t
e
h
d
e s
d
o
ig
c
n
ia
it
l
y
e
.
xclusion; and enables life in
ts
in
s
in light of reduction of hours of work suffered.
tru
m
e
n
2
5
ts
3

--- Page 260 ---
2 5 4 C M o in n i v m e u n m tio s n t a N n o d . a 1 r 0 d 2 s C N
Ad
o o
v
n .
a
1 v
n
7 e 6 n
c e
t b i
d
o n
s tan
N
da
o
r
.
d
1
s
6 8 a and Recommendation R B e a c s o ic m p m ro e t n e d ct a i t o io n n No. 202 B u ild
in
g
s
o
What should For schemes covering C.168: Throughout the unemployment period; As long as the incapacity to earn a c
t
d
h
u
e
r a
b
t
e
io
n
n
e f
b
it
e ?
e
b
m
en
p
e
lo
fi
y
ts
e e
w
s
it
:
h
A
in
t
a
le a
p
s
e
t
r i
1
o
3
d
w
of
e
1
e
2
k s of p
b
o
e
s
n
s
e
i
f
b
it
i l
t
it
o
y
2
to
6
l
w
im
e
i
e
t
k
in
s
i t
i
i
n
a l
e
d
a
u
c
r
h
a t
c
io
a
n
s e
o f
o
p
f
a
u
y
n
m
em
en
p
t
l o
o
y
f
m
th
e
e
n t or
sufficient income remains.
ia
l
p ro
months. 39 weeks over any period of 24 months; possible te
c
For means-tested waiting period of max seven days. tio
(non-contributory) schemes: R.176: Benefit duration should be extended until n
s
At least 26 weeks within a period pensionable age for unemployed persons having y s
of 12 months. reached a prescribed age. te
m
P
se
o
v
s
e
s
n
ib
d
le
a y
w
s
a
.
iting period of max s
(re
v
is
What conditions Qualifying period may be C.168: Qualifying period may be prescribed as Should be defined at national level, and e
d
can be prescribed prescribed as necessary to necessary to prevent abuse. prescribed by law, applying principles of )
for entitlement prevent abuse. non-discrimination, responsiveness to
R.176: Qualifying period should be adapted or waived
to a benefit? special needs and social inclusion, and
for new jobseekers.
ensuring the rights and dignity of
people.
a Employment Promotion and Protection against Unemployment Convention, 1988. b Employment Promotion and Protection against Unemployment Recommendation,
1988.

--- Page 261 ---
Table 6. Main requirements: ILO social security standards on income security in old age (old-age pensions)
Convention No. 102 Convention No. 128 a and Recommendation Recommendation No. 202
Minimum standards No. 131 b Basic protection
Advanced standards
What should Survival beyond a prescribed age C.128: Survival beyond a prescribed age (65 or higher At least basic income security for older
be covered? (65 or higher according to working with due regard to demographic, economic and social persons.
ability of elderly persons in criteria). Also, the prescribed age should be lower than
country). 65 for persons with occupations deemed arduous or
unhealthy.
R.131: In addition, the prescribed age should be
lowered based on social grounds.
Who should At least: C.128: All employees, including apprentices; or All residents of a nationally prescribed
be protected? – 50% of all employees; or – categories of economically active population (form- age, subject to the country’s existing
international obligations.
– categories of economically ing not least 75% of whole economically active
active population (forming not population); or In
l
r
e
e
s
s
s
id
t
e
h
n
a
t
n
s )
2
;
0
o
%
r
of all –
–
a
re
ll
s
r
id
es
e
i
n
d
t
e
s
n
w
ts
it
;
h
o
m
r
eans under prescribed threshold.
te rn
a
– all residents with means
tio
R.131: Coverage should be extended to persons n
under prescribed threshold. a
whose employment is of casual nature; or all l s
economically active persons. (Benefits should not be ta
n
suspended solely for reason of being absent from the d
a
territory). rd
s
What should Periodic payments: at least 40% C.128: Periodic payments: at least 45% of reference Benefits in cash or in kind at a level that a n
be the benefit? of reference wage; adjustment wage; adjustment following substantial changes in ensures at least basic income security, d
h
following substantial changes in general level of earnings or in the cost of living. so as to secure effective access to u
m
general level of earnings which R.131: At least 55% of reference wage; minimum necessary goods and services; prevents a n
r
th
e
e
su
c
lt
o
f
s
r
t
o
o
m
f l
s
iv
u
in
bs
g
t
.
a ntial changes in a
to
m
e
o
n
u
s
n
u
t
r e
o f
a
o
m
ld-
in
a
i
g
m
e
u
b
m
e n
s
e
ta
fi
n
t
d
s
a
h
r
o
d
u l
o
d
f
b
liv
e
i n
fi
g
x
;
e
l
d
e v
b
e
y
l
l
o
e
f
g
b
is
e
la
n
t
e
io
fi
n
t
o
so
r
c
a
i
l
a
le
l
v
e
i
x
a
c
te
lu
s
s
p
io
o
n
v
;
e
a
rt
n
y
d
, v
e
u
n
l
a
n
b
e
l
r
e
a
s
b i
l
l
if
it
e
y
i
a
n
n d rig
h
s
h
h
e
o
lp
u
.
ld be increased if beneficiary requires constant d
re
ig
v
n
ie
it
w
y.
e
L
d
e
.
vels should be regularly ts
in s
tru
m
e
n
2
5
ts
5

--- Page 262 ---
2 5 6 C M o in n i v m e u n m tio s n t a N n o d . a 1 r 0 d 2 s C N
Ad
o o
v
n .
a
1 v
n
3 e 1 n
c e
t b i
d
o n
s tan
N
da
o
r
.
d
1
s
2 8 a and Recommendation R B e a c s o ic m p m ro e t n e d ct a i t o io n n No. 202 B u ild
in
g
s
o
The amount of benefits should be periodically adjusted c ia
taking account of changes in the general level of l
p
earnings or the cost of living. ro
te
(Level of benefits should be increased under certain c
conditions, if the person who has reached pensionable
tio
n
age defers either their retirement or their claim to s
y
benefits). s
te
Benefits provided through a contributory scheme m
s
s
e
h
n
o
tit
u
le
ld
d
n
t
o
o
t
t h
b
e
e s
b
u
e
s
n
p
e
e
fi
n
ts
d
i
e
s
d
g
s
a
o
in
le
fu
ly
ll y
b e
o
c
c
a
c
u
u
s
p
e
ie
t
d
h
.
e person (re
v
is
What should From the prescribed age to the From the prescribed age to the death of beneficiary. From the nationally prescribed age to e d
the benefit death of beneficiary. the death of beneficiary.
)
duration be?
What conditions 30 years of contribution or C.128: Same as C.102 Should be defined at national level and
can be prescribed employment (for contributory R.131: 20 years of contributions or employment (for prescribed by law, applying the
for entitlement schemes) or 20 years of residence contributory schemes) or 15 years of residence (for principles of non-discrimination,
to a benefit? (for non-contributory schemes); or, non-contributory schemes). responsiveness to special needs and
if all EAP covered, a prescribed social inclusion, and ensuring the rights
Entitlement to a reduced benefit after 10 years of
qualifying period and a prescribed and dignity of older persons.
contribution or employment.
yearly average number of
contributions paid. Periods of incapacity due to sickness, accident or
maternity, and periods of involuntary unemployment, in
Entitlement to a reduced benefit respect of which benefit was paid, and compulsory
after 15 years of contribution or
military service, should be assimilated to periods of
employment; or, contribution or employment for calculation of the
if all EAP covered, a prescribed qualifying period fulfilled.
qualifying period and meet half the
yearly average number of
contributions prescribed.
a Invalidity, Old-Age and Survivors’ Benefits Convention, 1967. b Invalidity, Old-Age and Survivors’ Benefits Recommendation, 1967.

--- Page 263 ---
Table 7. Main requirements: ILO social security standards on employment injury protection
Convention No. 102 Convention No. 121 a and Recommendation No. 121 b Recommendation No. 202
Minimum standards Advanced standards Basic protection
What should Ill health and/or incapacity for work C.121: Same as C.102. At least basic income security for
be covered? due to work-related accident or those who are unable to earn a
disease, resulting in suspension of sufficient income due to employment
earnings; total loss of earning injury.
capacity or partial loss at a
prescribed degree, likely to be
permanent, or corresponding loss of
faculty; loss of support for the family
in case of death of breadwinner.
Who should At least 50% of all employees and C.121: All public and private sector employees, including At least all residents of active age,
be protected? their wives and children. members of cooperatives and apprentices; in case of subject to the country’s existing
death, spouse, children and other dependants as international obligations.
prescribed. In
te
R.121: Coverage should be extended progressively to all rn
categories of employees, other categories of workers a tio
and other dependent family members (parents, brothers n
a
and sisters, and grandchildren). l
s
ta
What should Medical care and allied benefits: C.121: Medical care: Same as C.102; also emergency Benefits in cash or in kind at a level n
d
the benefit be? General practitioner, specialist, and follow-up treatment at place of work. that ensures at least basic income a
dental care, nursing care; Cash benefits: security, so as to secure effective
rd
s
hospitalization; medication, Periodic payments: at least 60% of reference wage in access to necessary goods and a n
rehabilitation, prosthetics, cases of incapacity for work or invalidity; at least 50% of services; prevents or alleviates d h
eyeglasses, etc., with a view to reference wage as well as funeral benefits in case of poverty, vulnerability and social u m
maintaining, restoring or improving death of breadwinner. exclusion; and enables life in dignity. a
h
to
e
p
a
e
lth
rs
a
o
n
n
d
a l
a
n
b
e
il
e
it
d
y
s
t
.
o work and attend L
re
e
q
v
u
e
i
l
r e
o
s
f b
c
e
o
n
n
e
s
f
t
i
a
t
n
s
t
h
h
o
e
u
l
l
p
d
.
be increased if beneficiary Levels should be regularly reviewed. n rig
h
ts
in
s
tru
m
e
n
2
5
ts
7

--- Page 264 ---
2 5 8 C M o in n i v m e u n m tio s n t a N n o d . a 1 r 0 d 2 s C Ad o v n a v n en ce ti d o n s t N an o d . 1 a 2 rd 1 s a and Recommendation No. 121 b R B e a c s o ic m p m ro e t n e d ct a i t o io n n No. 202 B u ild
in
g
Cash benefits: Periodic payments: Lump sum: Same conditions as C.102 as regards s
o
at least 50% of reference wage in substantial partial loss of earning capacity or c ia
cases of incapacity to work or corresponding loss of faculty, or with regards to partial l
p
invalidity; at least 40% of reference loss of earning capacity likely to be permanent which is ro
wage in cases of death of not substantial but which is in excess of a prescribed te
c
breadwinner. degree, with the consent of the injured person and if the tio
Adjustment of long-term benefits competent authority believes that it will be used in a n s
following substantial changes in particularly advantageous manner. y s
general level of earnings which Adjustment of long-term benefits following substantial
te
m
result from substantial changes in changes in the general level of earnings and/or the cost s
the cost of living. of living. (re
v
Lump sum if incapacity is slight and R.121: Same as C.102. is e
competent authority is satisfied that d
the sum will be used properly.
Cash benefit: not less than 66.67% of average earnings )
of persons protected;
Costs of constant help or attendance should be covered
when such care is required.
Supplementary or special benefits where unemployability
or disfigurement are not taken into account in the
evaluation of the loss sustained.
Lump sum allowed where degree of incapacity is less
than 25%; should bear an equitable relationship to
periodic payments and not be less than periodic
payments for three years.
What should As long as the person is in need of C.121: As long as the person is in need of health care or As long as the incapacity to earn a
the benefit health care or remains remains incapacitated. sufficient income remains.
duration be? incapacitated. R.121: In addition, cash benefits should be paid from first
No waiting period except for day in each case of suspension of earnings.
temporary incapacity to work for a
maximum of three days.

--- Page 265 ---
Convention No. 102 Convention No. 121 a and Recommendation No. 121 b Recommendation No. 202
Minimum standards Advanced standards Basic protection
What conditions No qualifying period allowed for C.121: Same as C.102. Should be defined at national level
can be benefits to injured persons. (In the case of occupational diseases, a period of and prescribed by law, applying the
prescribed For dependants, benefit may be exposure may be prescribed.) principles of non-discrimination,
for entitlement made conditional on spouse being responsiveness to special needs and
to a benefit? presumed incapable of self-support social inclusion, and ensuring the
and children remaining under a rights and dignity of the injured
prescribed age. people.
a Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964. b Employment Injury Benefits Recommendation, 1964.
In
te
rn
a
tio
n
a
l
s
ta
n
d
a
rd
s
a
n
d
h
u
m
a
n
rig
h
ts
in
s
tru
m
e
n
2
5
ts
9

--- Page 266 ---
2 6 0 Table 8. Main requirements: ILO social security standards on family/child benefits B u ild
in
ILO Convention No. 102 ILO Recommendation No. 202 g
Minimum standards Basic protection s o
c
ia
What should Responsibility for child maintenance. At least basic income security for children. l p
be covered? ro
te
c
Who should At least: All children. tio
be protected? – 50% of all employees; or n
s
– categories of economically active population (forming not y s
less than 20% of all residents; or
te
m
– all residents with means under prescribed threshold. s
(re
What should Periodic payments; or provision for food, clothing, housing, Benefits in cash or in kind at a level that ensures at least basic income v is
the benefit be? holidays or domestic help; or combination of both. security for children, providing access to nutrition, education, care and e d
Total value of benefits calculated at a global level:
other necessary goods and services. )
– at least 3% of reference wage multiplied by number of
children of covered people; or
– a least 1.5% of reference wage multiplied by number of
children of all residents.
What should At least from birth to 15 years of age or school-leaving age. For the duration of childhood.
the benefit
duration be?
What conditions – Three months’ contributions or employment (for Should be defined at national level and prescribed by law, applying
can be prescribed contributory or employment based schemes); the principles of non-discrimination, responsiveness to special needs
for entitlement – one year’s residence (for non-contributory schemes). and social inclusion, and ensuring the rights and dignity of children.
to a benefit?

--- Page 267 ---
Table 9. Main requirements: ILO social security standards on maternity protection
ILO Convention No. 102 ILO Convention No. 183 a and Recommendation ILO Recommendation No. 202
Minimum standards No. 191 b Basic protection
Advanced standards
What should Medical care required by C.183: Medical care required by pregnancy, child birth and Essential maternity health care
be covered? pregnancy, confinement and their consequences; resulting lost wages. At least basic income security for those
their consequences; resulting R.191: Same as C.183. who are unable to earn a sufficient
lost wages. income due to maternity.
Who should At least: C.183: All employed women including those in atypical At least all women who are residents,
be protected? – all women in prescribed forms of dependant work. subject to the country’s international
classes of employees, R.191: Same as C.183. obligations.
which classes constitute
not less than 50% of all
employees and, for
maternity medical benefit,
also the wives of men in
In
te
these classes or rn
a
– all women in categories of tio
the economically active n
a
population forming not less l
s
than 20% of all residents, ta
n
including, with regard to d
a
maternity medical benefit, rd
the wives of men in these s
a
classes); or n
d
– all women with means h
u
under prescribed m
a
threshold. n
rig
h
ts
in
s
tru
m
e
n
2
6
ts
1

--- Page 268 ---
2 6 2 I M L i O n i C m o u n m v e s n ta ti n o d n a N rd o s . 102 I N
A
L
d
o O
v
.
a
1 C
n
9 o 1
c
n
e
b v
d
e n
s
t
t
i
a
o
n
n
d
N
ar
o
d
.
s
1 83 a and Recommendation I B L a O s i R c e p c r o o m te m ct e io n n d ation No. 202 B u ild
in
g
s
o
What should Medical benefits: At least: C.183: Medical benefits: At least prenatal, childbirth and Medical benefits: Goods and services c
the benefit be? – p
p
r
o
e
s
n
t-
a
n
t
a
a
t
l,
a
c
l
o
ca
n
r
fi
e
n e
b
m
y q
e
u
nt
a l
a
if
n
ie
d
d
p
D
o
a
s
il
t
y
- n
r
a
e
t
m
al
u
c
n
a
e
r
r
e
a
;
t e
h
d
o s
b
p
r
i
e
ta
a
l
k
iz
s
a
o
ti
r
o
r
n
e
i
d
f
u
n
c
e
e
c
d
e s
h
s
o
a
u
r
r
y
s
.
for
c
h
o
e
n
a
s
lt
t
h
it
c
u
a
ti
r
n
e
g
m
e
e
s
e
se
tin
n
g
tia
c
l
r
m
ite
a
r
t
i
e
a
r
o
n
f
it y
ia
l
p ro
practitioners; breastfeeding. availability, accessibility, acceptability te
c
– hospitalization if Cash benefits: At least 66.67% of previous earnings; and quality; free prenatal and post-natal tio
medical care should be considered for n
W res it t h o n r a e in c v g e ie s o w s r a i t m r o y p . m ro a v in in ta g i n th in e g , s h in h e c o a re u lt l a h d s a m e n t a d h i n e a t a l s e i u n v i e t m a ls b o l o e th f s e c t r a a a s n h n d d a b r e c d h n i o e ld f f i t l i i s n v i m n p g r u o . s p A t e b p r e p c r e o o x n p a d ri m i a ti t o i e n n n e s e d s o s f to t B h e e n m ef o it s s t in vu c ln a e sh ra o b r le in . kind: should s y s te m
h
a
e
n
a
d
l t
h
h
e
o
r
f
a
t
b
h
i
e
lit y
w
t
o
o
m
w
a
o
n
r k
p r
a
o
n
te
d
c
t
t
o
e d p
R
e
.1
ri
9
o
1
d
:
ic
M
al
e
ly
d
.
i cal benefits: Medical maternity care should
e
a
n
s
s
to
u r
s
e
e
a
c
t
u
l
r
e
e
a
e
st
f f
b
ec
a
t
s
iv
ic
e
i n
a
c
c
o
c
m
es
e
s
s
to
e curity, so s
(re
necessary goods and services, and be v
attend to her personal needs. also comprise pharmaceutical and medical supplies, is
at a level that prevents or alleviates e
C
Pe
a
r
s
io
h
d
b
ic
e n
p
e
a
f
y
it
m
s:
e nt: At least 45%
m
ca
e
re
d
.
ic ally prescribed tests as well as dental and surgical p
e
o
xc
v
l
e
u
r
s
ty
io
,
n
v u
a
l
n
n
d
e r
e
a
n
b
a
il
b
it
l
y
e
a
s
n
li
d
fe
s
i
o
n
c
d
ia
ig
l
nity.
d )
of the reference wage. Cash benefits: Should be raised to the full amount of the Levels should be regularly reviewed.
woman’s previous earnings.
What should Medical benefits: Throughout C.183: 14 weeks’ maternity leave, including 6 weeks’ As long as the incapacity to earn a
the benefit the contingency compulsory leave after childbirth; additional leave before or sufficient income remains.
duration be? Cash benefits: At least after maternity leave in case of illness, complications or risk
12 weeks for cash benefits. of complications arising from pregnancy or childbirth.
R.191: At least 18 weeks’ maternity leave.
Extension of the maternity leave in the event of multiple
births.
What conditions As considered necessary to C.183: Conditions must be met by a large majority of Should be defined at national level and
can be preclude abuse. women; those who do not meet conditions are entitled to prescribed by law, applying the
prescribed social assistance. principles of non-discrimination,
for entitlement R.191: Same as C.183. responsiveness to special needs and
to a benefit? social inclusion, and ensuring the rights
and dignity of women.
a Maternity Protection Convention, 2000. b Maternity Protection Recommendation, 2000.

--- Page 269 ---
Table 10. Main requirements: ILO social security standards on disability benefits
ILO Convention No. 102 ILO Convention No. 128 and Recommendation No. 131 ILO Recommendation No. 202
Minimum standards Advanced standards Basic protection
What should Inability to engage in any gainful C.128: Incapacity to engage in any gainful activity, likely to At least basic income security for those
be covered? activity, likely to be permanent, be permanent, or that persists beyond temporary or initial who are unable to earn a sufficient
or that persists beyond sickness incapacity (total invalidity). income due to disability.
benefit (total invalidity). R.131: Incapacity to engage in an activity involving
substantial gain (total and partial invalidity).
Who should At least: C.128: All employees, including apprentices; or At least all residents, subject to the
be protected? – 50% of all employees; or – at least 75% of economically active population; or country’s existing international
obligations.
– categories of the – all residents, or residents with means under
economically active prescribed threshold.
population (forming not less
R.131: Coverage should be extended to persons in casual
than 20% of all residents);
or
e
sh
m
o
p
u
l
l
o
d
y m
no
e
t
n
b
t
e
a
s
n
u
d
s
a
p
l
e
l e
n
c
d
o
e
n
d
o
s
m
o
i
le
ca
ly
l ly
fo
a
r
c
re
tiv
a
e
s o
p
n
e r
o
s
f
o
b
n
e
s
i
.
n
B
g
e
a
n
b
e
s
f
e
it
n
s
t
In
te
– all residents with means from territory.
rn
a
under prescribed threshold tio
n
a
What should Periodic payment: at least 40% C.128: Periodic payment: at least 50% of reference wage; Benefits in cash or in kind at a level that l
s
the benefit be? of reference wage. adjustment following substantial changes in general level of ensures at least basic income security, ta
n
Adjustment following substantial earnings or of the cost of living. so as to secure effective access to d a
changes in general level of Provision of rehabilitation services as well as measures to necessary goods and services; prevents rd
earnings which result from further the placement of disabled persons in suitable or alleviates poverty, vulnerability and s a
substantial changes in the cost employment. social exclusion; and enables life in n d
of living. R.131: Periodic payment should be increased to at least dignity. h u
m
60% of reference wage. Minimum amount of disability
a
benefit should be fixed by legislation to ensure a minimum n
standard of living.
rig
h
The amount of benefits should be periodically adjusted ts
taking account of changes in the general level of earnings
in
s
or the cost of living. tru
m
Reduced benefit for partial invalidity. e
n
2
6
ts
3

--- Page 270 ---
2 6 4 I
M
L
i
O
n i
C
m
o
u
n
m
v e
s
n
ta
ti
n
o
d
n
a
N
rd
o
s
. 102 I
A
L
d
O
v a
C
n
o
c
n
e
v
d
e n
s
t
t
i
a
o
n
n
d
N
ar
o
d
.
s
1 28 and Recommendation No. 131 I
B
L
a
O
s i
R
c
e
p
c
r
o
o
m
te
m
ct
e
io
n
n
d ation No. 202 B u ild
in
g
What should As long as the person remains As long as the person remains incapacitated or until old- As long as the inability to earn a s o
the benefit unable to engage in gainful age pension is paid. sufficient income remains. c ia
duration be? employment or until old-age l p
pension is paid. ro
te
c
What conditions 15 years of contributions or C.128: Same as C.102. Entitlement conditions should be defined tio
can be employment (for contributory R.131: Five years of contributions, employment or at national level and prescribed by law, n s
prescribed schemes) or 10 years of residence; qualifying period should be removed (or applying the principles of non- y s
for entitlement residence (for non-contributory reduced) for young workers or where invalidity is due to an discrimination, responsiveness to te m
to a benefit? s
i
c
f
c
o
a
h
n
ll
e
t r
E
m
ib
A
e
u
P
s
ti
)
o
c
;
n
o
o
s
r
v e
a
r
n
e
d
d
m
: 3
e e
ye
t
a
th
rs
e
of
a
P a
c
n e
c
d ri
i
o
d
p d
e
e s
n
r i
t
o o
.
d f s in o ca f p in a v c o it lu y n d t u a e ry t o u n s e ic m k p n l e o s y s m , e a n cc t, i d in e n re t s o p r e m ct a o te f rnity
s
e
p
p
n
e
e
s
rs
c
u
o
i
r
a
i
n
n
l
s
g
n
w
e
th
e
it
e
d
h
s
r
d
ig
a
is
h
n
a
t
d
s
b i
s
l
a
i
o
t
n
i
c
e
d
i
s
a
d
.
l
i
i
g
n
n
c
i
l
t
u
y
s
o
io
f
n and s
(re
v is
y c e on a t r r ly ib a u v ti e o r n a s g p e r e n s u c m ri b b e e r d o ; f which benefit was paid, and compulsory military service, e d )
should be assimilated to periods of contribution or
employment for calculation of the qualifying period fulfilled.
Entitlement to a reduced benefit
after 5 years of contributions or
employment; or
if all EAP covered: 3 years of
contributions and meet half the
yearly average number of
contributions prescribed.

--- Page 271 ---
Table 11. Main requirements: ILO social security standards on survivors’ benefits
ILO Convention No. 102 ILO Convention No. 128 and Recommendation ILO Recommendation No. 202
Minimum standards No. 131 Basic protection
Advanced standards
What should Widow’s or children’s loss of support C.128: Widow’s or children’s loss of support in case of At least basic income security for
be covered? in the event of death of the death of breadwinner. those who are unable to earn a
breadwinner. R.131: Same as C.128. sufficient income due to the
absence of family support.
Who should Wives and children of breadwinners in C.128: At least all residents and children,
be protected? categories of employees representing – Wives, children and other dependants of employees subject to the country’s existing
at least 50% of all employees; or or apprentices; or international obligations.
wives and children of members of – wives, children and other dependants forming not
categories of economically active less than 75% of economically active population; or
population representing at least 20%
– all widows, children and other dependants who are
of all residents; or
residents; or In
all resident widows and children with
– who are residents and whose means are under
te
means under prescribed threshold. rn
prescribed threshold. a
R.131: In addition, coverage should progressively be
tio
n
extended to wives and children and other dependants of a l
s
persons in casual employment or all economically active ta
persons. Also, an invalid and dependent widower should n d
enjoy same entitlements as a widow. Benefits should not a rd
be suspended solely for reason of being absent from s
territory. a n
d
h
u
m
a
n
rig
h
ts
in
s
tru
m
e
n
2
6
ts
5

--- Page 272 ---
2 6 6 I M L i O n i C m o u n m v e s n ta ti n o d n a N rd o s . 102 I N
A
L
d
o O
v
.
a
1 C
n
3 o 1
c
n
e
v
d
e n
s
t
t
i
a
o
n
n
d
N
ar
o
d
.
s
1 28 and Recommendation I B L a O s i R c e p c r o o m te m ct e io n n d ation No. 202 B u ild
in
g
s
o
What should Periodic payment: at least 40% of C.128: Periodic payment: at least 45% of reference Benefits in cash or in kind should c
the benefit be? r
s
e
u
f
b
e
s
re
ta
n
n
c
t
e
ia
w
l c
a
h
g
a
e
n
;
g
a
e
d
s
ju
i
s
n
t m
ge
e
n
n
e
t
r
f
a
o
l
l l
l
o
e
w
ve
in
l
g
o f
w
ch
a
a
g
n
e
g
;
e
a
s
d
i
j
n
u s
g
tm
en
e
e
n
r
t
a
o
l
f
le
b
v
e
e
n
l
e
o
f
f
i t
e
s
a
f
r
o
n
ll
i
o
n
w
gs
in
o
g
r
t
o
o
f
s
t
u
h
b
e
s
c
ta
o
n
s
t
t
i a
o
l
f
e
se
n
c
s
u
u
r
r
i
e
ty
a
s
t
o
le
a
a
s
s t
t o
b a
s
s
e
i
c
c
u
i
r
n
e
c o
e
m
ffe
e
c tive
ia
l
p ro
earnings which result from substantial living. access to necessary goods and te
c
changes in the cost of living. R.131: Benefits should be increased to at least 55% of services at a level that prevents or tio
r
fi
e
x
f
e
e
d
re
t
n
o
c
e
e
n
w
su
a
r
g
e
e
a
; a
m
m
in
i
i
n
m
im
um
um
s t
s
a
u
n
r
d
v
a
iv
r
o
d
r s
o
’
f
b
li
e
vi
n
n
e
g
f
.
i t should be a
so
lle
ci
v
a
ia
l
t
e
e
x
s
c l
p
u
o
s
v
io
e
n
rt y
a
,
n
v
d
u
e
ln
n
e
a
r
b
a
l
b
e
i
s
li t
l
y
if e
a n
in
d n
s y s
dignity. Levels should be regularly te
The amount of benefits should be periodically adjusted reviewed. m
t
e
a
a
k
r
i
n
n
i
g
n g
a
s
c c
o
o
r
u
th
n
e
t o
c
f
o
c
s
h
t
a
o
n
f
g
li
e
vi
s
n g
in
.
the general level of s
(re
v
Allowances or lump-sum benefits for widows who do not is e
fulfil prescribed entitlement conditions, and/or assistance d )
and facilities to obtain suitable employment.
Benefits provided through a contributory scheme should
not be suspended solely because the person entitled to
the benefits is gainfully occupied.
What should Until children reach 15 years of age; C.128 and R.131: Until children reach 15 years of age or As long as the inability to earn a
the benefit or school leaving age; school leaving age, or higher if apprentice, student or has sufficient income remains.
duration be? until widows are remarried. a chronic illness/disability;
Widows, unless engaged in gainful activity or remarried.

--- Page 273 ---
ILO Convention No. 102 ILO Convention No. 128 and Recommendation ILO Recommendation No. 202
Minimum standards No. 131 Basic protection
Advanced standards
What conditions 15 years of contributions or C.128: Same as C.102; In addition, possible to require a Should be defined at national level
can be employment (for contributory prescribed age for widow, not higher than that prescribed and prescribed by law, applying the
prescribed schemes) or 10 years of residence (for for old-age benefit. No requirement of age for an invalid principles of non-discrimination,
for entitlement non-contributory schemes); or widow or a widow caring for a dependent child of responsiveness to special needs
to a benefit? if all EAP covered: 3 years of deceased. A minimum duration of marriage may be and social inclusion, and ensuring
contributions and meet the yearly required for a widow who is without child. the rights and dignity of people.
average number of contributions R.131: Five years of contributions, employment or
prescribed; residence; Same as C128.Periods of incapacity due to
sickness, accident or maternity and periods of involuntary
unemployment, in respect of which benefit was paid and
Entitlement to a reduced benefit after
compulsory military service, should be assimilated to
five years of contributions or
periods of contribution or employment for calculation of
employment; or
the qualifying period fulfilled.
if all EAP covered: 3 years of
c
a
o
v
n
e
t
r
r
a
ib
g
u
e
t i
n
o
u
n
m
s
b
a
e
n
r
d
o
m
f c
e
o
e
n
t
t
h
ri
a
b
l
u
f
t
t
i
h
o
e
n s
y early W
a p
id
r
o
es
w
c
s
r
'
i b
b
e
e
d
n e
a
f
g
it
e
s
.
may be conditional on the attainment of In te
rn
prescribed. a tio
n
a
For widows, benefits may be l s
conditional on being presumed
ta
n
incapable of self-support. d a
rd
s
a
n
d
h
u
m
a
n
rig
h
ts
in
s
tru
m
e
n
2
6
ts
7

--- Page 274 ---
2 6 8 B u ild
in
g
s
Annex III. Table of ratification of ILO up-to-date social security conventions o c
ia
l
p
Table 12. Ratification of ILO up-to-date social security conventions, by region ro
te
c
Branch Migrant
tio
n
Medical care Sickness Unemployment Old age Employment Family Maternity Invalidity Survivors workers a s
y
C.1 02 C.1 02 C.1 02 C.1 02 C
in
.
j
1
u
0
ry
2 C.1 02 C.1 02 C.1 02 C.1 02
s te
m
Country
C
C
.
.
1
1
3
1
0
8
C
C
.
.
1
1
3
1
0
8
C
C
.
.
1
1
6
1
8
8
C
C
.
.
1
1
2
1
8
8
C
C
.
.
1
1
2
1
1
8 C.1 18
C
C
.
.
1
1
8
1
3
8
C
C
.
.
1
1
2
1
8
8
C
C
.
.
1
1
2
1
8
8
C
C
.1
.1
1
5
8
7
b s
(re
v
AFRICA
is
e
d
Benin C.102 (2019) 1 C.102 (2019) 1 C.102 (2019) 1 C.102 (2019) 1 C.102 (2019) 1 C.102 (2019) 1
)
C.183 (2012)
Burkina Faso C.183 (2013)
Cabo Verde C.102 (2020) 2 C.102 (2020) 2 C.102 (2020) 2
C.118 (1987) C.118 (1987) C.118 (1987) C.118 (1987) C.118 (1987) C.118 (1987) C.118 (1987) C.118 (1987) C.118 (1987)
Central African C.118 (1964) C.118 (1964) C.118 (1964) C.118 (1964) C.118 (1964)
Republic
Chad C.102 (2015) C.102 (2015) C.102 (2015) C.102 (2015) C.102 (2015)
Congo, Democratic C.102 (1987) C.102 (1987) C.102 (1987) C.102 (1987)
Republic of the C.121 (1967)
C.118 (1967) C.118 (1967) C.118 (1967) C.118 (1967)
Egypt C.118 (1993) C.118 (1993) C.118 (1993) C.118 (1993) C.118 (1993) C.118 (1993) C.118 (1993) C.118 (1993) C.118 (1993)
Guinea C.121 (1967)
C.118 (1967) C.118 (1967) C.118 (1967) C.118 (1967) C.118 (1967) C.118 (1967) C.118 (1967) C.118 (1967)
Kenya C.118 (1971) C.118 (1971) C.118 (1971) C.118 (1971)
Libya C.102 (1975) C.102 (1975) C.102 (1975) C.102 (1975) C.102 (1975) C.102 (1975) C.102 (1975) C.102 (1975) C.102 (1975)
C.130 (1975) C.130 (1975) C.128 (1975) C.121 (1975) C.128 (1975) C.128 (1975)
C.118 (1975) C.118 (1975) C.118 (1975) C.118 (1975) C.118 (1975) C.118 (1975) C.118 (1975) C.118 (1975) C.118 (1975) C.118 (1975)
Madagascar C.118 (1964) C.118 (1964) C.118 (1964) C.118 (1964) C.118 (1964)

--- Page 275 ---
Branch Migrant
Medical care Sickness Unemployment Old age Employment Family Maternity Invalidity Survivors workers a
injury
C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102
C.130 C.130 C.168 C.128 C.121 C.183 C.128 C.128 C.118 b
Country C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.157
Mali C.183 (2008)
Mauritania C.102 (1968) C.102 (1968) C.102 (1968) C.102 (1968) C.102 (1968)
C.118 (1968) C.118 (1968) C.118 (1968) C.118 (1968) C.118 (1968) C.118 (1968)
Mauritius C.183 (2019) 3
Morocco C.102 (2019) 4 C.102 (2019) 4 C.102 (2019) 4 C.102 (2019) 4 C.102 (2019) 4 C.102 (2019) 4 C.102 (2019) 4 C.102 (2019) 4
C.183 (2011)
Niger C.102 (1966) C.102 (1966) C.102 (1966) C.102 (1966)
C.183 (2019) 5
Rwanda C.118 (1989) C.118 (1989) C.118 (1989) C.118 (1989) C.118 (1989)
Sao Tome and C.183 (2017) In
Principe te
Senegal C.102 (1962) C.102 (1962) C.102 (1962)
rn
a
C.121 (1966) C.183 (2017) tio
n
Togo C.102 (2013) C.102 (2013) C.102 (2013) C.102 (2013) a
l
s
Tunisia C.118 (1965) C.118 (1965) C.118 (1965) C.118 (1965) C.118 (1965) C.118 (1965) C.118 (1965) C.118 (1965) C.118 (1965) ta
n
AMERICAS d a
rd
Argentina C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016) s
a
Barbados C.102 (1972) C.102 (1972) C.102 (1972) C.102 (1972) C.102 (1972) n
d
C.128 (1972) C.128 (1972) h
C.118 (1974) C.118 (1974) C.118 (1974) C.118 (1974) C.118 (1974) C.118 (1974) u m
a
Belize C.183 (2005) n
Bolivia, Plurinational C.102 (1977) C.102 (1977) C.102 (1977) C.102 (1977) C.102 (1977) C.102 (1977) C.102 (1977) C.102 (1977)
rig
h
State of C.130 (1977) C.130 (1977) C.128 (1977) C.121 (1977) C.128 (1977) C.128 (1977) ts
C.118 (1977) C.118 (1977) C.118 (1977) C.118 (1977) C.118 (1977) in
s
Brazil C.102 (2009) C.102 (2009) C.102 (2009) C.102 (2009) C.102 (2009) C.102 (2009) C.102 (2009) C.102 (2009) C.102 (2009) tru
C.168 (1993) m
C.118 (1969) C.118 (1969) C.118 (1969) C.118 (1969) C.118 (1969) C.118 (1969) C.118 (1969) C.118 (1969) e n
2 ts
6
9

--- Page 276 ---
2 7 0 Medica l care Sickn ess Unempl oyment Old age Em B p
i
r
n
l a o
ju
n y
r
c m
y
h e nt Fam ily Mate rnity Inval idity Survi vors w M o i r g k r e a r n s t a B u ild
in
g
C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 s
o
C.130 C.130 C.168 C.128 C.121 C.183 C.128 C.128 C.118 b c ia
Country C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.157 l
p
Chile C.121 (1999)
ro
te
Costa Rica C
C
.
.
1
1
0
3
2
0
(
(
1
1
9
9
7
7
2
2
)
) C.130 (1972)
C.102 (1972) C.102 (1972) C.102 (1972) C.102 (1972) C.102 (1972) C.102 (1972) c tio
n
s
Cuba C.183 (2004) y
s
Dominican Republic C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016)
te
m
C.183 (2016) s
Ecuador C.102 (1974) C.102 (1974) C.102 (1974) C.102 (1974) C.102 (1974)
(re
v
C.130 (1978) C.130 (1978) C.128 (1978) C.121 (1978) C.128 (1978) C.128 (1978) is
C.118 (1970) C.118 (1970) C.118 (1970) C.118 (1970) C.118 (1970) C.118 (1970) C.118 (1970) e d
Guatemala C.118 (1963) C.118 (1963)
)
Honduras C.102 (2012) C.102 (2012) C.102 (2012) C.102 (2012) C.102 (2012) C.102 (2012)
Mexico C.102 (1961) C.102 (1961) C.102 (1961) C.102 (1961) C.102 (1961) C.102 (1961) C.102 (1961)
C.118 (1978) C.118 (1978) C.118 (1978) C.118 (1978) C.118 (1978) C.118 (1978) C.118 (1978) C.118 (1978)
Peru C.102 (1961) C.102 (1961) C.102 (1961) C.102 (1961) C.102 (1961)
C.183 (2016)
Saint-Vincent and the C.102 (2015) C.102 (2015) C.102 (2015) C.102 (2015) C.102 (2015) C.102 (2015) C.102 (2015)
Grenadines
Suriname C.118 (1976) C.118 (1976)
Uruguay C.102 (2010) C.102 (2010) C.102 (2010) C.102 (2010)
C.130 (1973) C.130 (1973) C.128 (1973) C.121 (1973) 6 C.128 (1973) C.128 (1973)
C.118 (1983) C.118 (1983) C.118 (1983) C.118 (1983) C.118 (1983) C.118 (1983) C.118 (1983)
Venezuela, Bolivarian C.102 (1982) C.102 (1982) C.102 (1982) C.102 (1982) C.102 (1982) C.102 (1982) C.102 (1982)
Republic of C.130 (1982) C.130 (1982) C.128 (1983) C.121 (1982) C.128 (1983) C.128 (1983)
C.118 (1982) C.118 (1982) C.118 (1982) C.118 (1982) C.118 (1982) C.118 (1982) C.118 (1982) C.118 (1982)

--- Page 277 ---
Branch Migrant
Medical care Sickness Unemployment Old age Employment Family Maternity Invalidity Survivors workers a
injury
C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102
C.130 C.130 C.168 C.128 C.121 C.183 C.128 C.128 C.118 b
Country C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.157
ARAB STATES
Iraq C.118 (1978) C.118 (1978) C.118 (1978) C.118 (1978) C.118 (1978) C.118 (1978) C.118 (1978) C.118 (1978)
Jordan C.102 (2014) C.102 (2014) C.102 (2014) C.102 (2014)
C.118 (1963) C.118 (1963) C.118 (1963) C.118 (1963) C.118 (1963)
Syrian Arab Republic C.118 (1963) C.118 (1963) C.118 (1963) C.118 (1963) C.118 (1963)
ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
Azerbaijan C.183 (2010)
Bangladesh C.118 (1972) C.118 (1972) C.118 (1972)
India C.118 (1964) C.118 (1964) C.118 (1964) C.118 (1964) In
te
Japan C.102 (1976) C.102 (1976) C.102 (1976) C.102 (1976) rn
C.121 (1974) 6 a
tio
Kazakhstan C.183 (2012) n
a
Kyrgyzstan C.157 (2008)
l
s
ta
Pakistan C.118 (1969) C.118 (1969) C.118 (1969) n
d
a
Philippines C.118 (1994) C.118 (1994) C.118 (1994) C.118 (1994) C.118 (1994) C.118 (1994) C.118 (1994) C.118 (1994) rd
C.157 (1994) s
a
EUROPE n d
h
Albania C.102 (2006) C.102 (2006) C.102 (2006) C.102 (2006) C.102 (2006) C.102 (2006) C.102 (2006) C.102 (2006) u m
C.168 (2006) C.183 (2004) a
n
Austria C.102 (1969) C.102 (1978) C.102 (1969) C.102 (1969) C.102 (1969) rig
C.128 (1969) C.183 (2004) h
ts
Belarus C.183 (2004) in
s
Belgium C.102 (1959) C.102 (1959) C.102 (1959) C.102 (1959) C.102 (1959) C.102 (1959) C.102 (1959) C.102 (1959) C.102 (1959) tru
C.130 (2017) C.130 (2017) C.168 (2011) C.128 (2017) C.121 (1970) C.128 (2017) C.128 (2017) m
e
n
2 ts
7
1

--- Page 278 ---
2 7 2 Medica l care Sickn ess Unempl oyment Old age Em B p
i
r
n
l a o
ju
n y
r
c m
y
h e nt Fam ily Mate rnity Inval idity Survi vors w M o i r g k r e a r n s t a B u ild
in
g
C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 s
o
C.130 C.130 C.168 C.128 C.121 C.183 C.128 C.128 C.118 b c ia
Country C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.157 l
p
Bosnia and C.102 (1993) C.102 (1993) C.102 (1993) C.102 (1993) C.102 (1993) C.102 (1993) C.102 (1993)
ro
Herzegovina C.121 (1993) C.183 (2010)
te
c
Bulgaria C.102 (2008) C.102 (2008) C.102 (2016) 5 C.102 (2008) C.102 (2008) C.102 (2008) C.102 (2008) C.102 (2008)
tio
n
C.183 (2001) s
y
s
Croatia C.102 (1991) C.102 (1991) C.102 (1991) C.102 (1991) C.102 (1991) C.102 (1991) C.102 (1991) te
C.121 (1991) m
s
Cyprus C.102 (1991) C.102 (1991) C.102 (1991) C.102 (1991) C.102 (1991) C.102 (1991) (re
C.121 (1966) C.183 (2005) C.128 (1969) v
is
Czech Republic C.102 (1993) C.102 (1993) C.102 (1993) C.102 (1993) C.102 (1993) C.102 (1993) C.102 (1993) e d
C.130 (1993) C.130 (1993) C.128 (1993) )
Denmark C.102 (1955) C.102 (1955) C.102 (1955) C.102 (1955) C.102 (1955)
C.130 (1978) C.130 (1978)
C.118 (1969) C.118 (1969) C.118 (1969) C.118 (1969) C.118 (1969)
Finland C.130 (1974) C.130 (1974) C.168 (1990) C.128 (1976) C.121 (1968) 6 C.128 (1976) C.128 (1976)
C.118 (1969) C.118 (1969) C.118 (1969) C.118 (1969)
France C.102 (1974) C.102 (1974) C.102 (1974) C.102 (1974) C.102 (1974) C.102 (1974) C.102 (1974)
C.118 (1974) C.118 (1974) C.118 (1974) C.118 (1974) C.118 (1974) C.118 (1974) C.118 (1974) C.118 (1974)
Germany C.102 (1958) C.102 (1958) C.102 (1958) C.102 (1958) C.102 (1958) C.102 (1958) C.102 (1958) C.102 (1958) C.102 (1958)
C.130 (1974) C.130 (1974) C.128 (1971) C.121 (1972) C.128 (1971) C.128 (1971)
C.118 (1971) C.118 (1971) C.118 (1971) C.118 (1971) C.118 (1971) C.118 (1971)
Greece C.102 (1955) C.102 (1955) C.102 (1955) C.102 (1955) C.102 (1955) C.102 (1955) C.102 (1955) C.102 (1955)
Hungary C.183 (2003)
Iceland C.102 (1961) C.102 (1961) C.102 (1961)
Ireland C.102 (1968) C.102 (1968) C.102 (1968)
C.121 (1969)
C.118 (1964) C.118 (1964) C.118 (1964) C.118 (1964) C.118 (1964) C.118 (1964)
Israel C.102 (1955) C.102 (1955) C.102 (1955)
C.118 (1965) C.118 (1965) C.118 (1965) C.118 (1965) C.118 (1965) C.118 (1965)

--- Page 279 ---
Branch Migrant
Medical care Sickness Unemployment Old age Employment Family Maternity Invalidity Survivors workers a
injury
C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102
C.130 C.130 C.168 C.128 C.121 C.183 C.128 C.128 C.118 b
Country C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.157
Italy C.102 (1956) C.102 (1956) C.102 (1956)
C.183 (2001)
C.118 (1967) C.118 (1967) C.118 (1967) C.118 (1967) C.118 (1967) C.118 (1967) C.118 (1967) C.118 (1967) C.118 (1967) C.118 (1967)
Latvia C.183 (2009)
Lithuania C.183 (2003)
Luxembourg C.102 (1964) C.102 (1964) C.102 (1964) C.102 (1964) C.102 (1964) C.102 (1964) C.102 (1964) C.102 (1964) C.102 (1964)
C.130 (1980) C.130 (1980) C.121 (1972) C.183 (2008)
Moldova, Republic of C.183 (2006)
Montenegro C.102 (2006) C.102 (2006) C.102 (2006) C.102 (2006) C.102 (2006) C.102 (2006) C.102 (2006)
C.121 (2006) C.183 (2012)
In
Netherlands C.102 (1962) C.102 (1962) C.102 (1962) C.102 (1962) C.102 (1962) C.102 (1962) C.102 (1962) C.102 (1962) C.102 (1962) te
C.130 (2006) C.130 (2006) C.128 (1969) C.121 (1966) 6 C.183 (2009) C.128 (1969) C.128 (1969) rn
a
North Macedonia C.102 (1991) C.102 (1991) C.102 (1991) C.102 (1991) C.102 (1991) C.102 (1991) C.102 (1991) tio
C.121 (1991) C.183 (2012) n
a
Norway C.102 (1954) C.102 (1954) C.102 (1954) C.102 (1954) C.102 (1954) C.102 (1954)
l
s
C.130 (1972) C.130 (1972) C.168 (1990) C.128 (1968) C.183 (2015) C.128 (1968) C.128 (1968)
ta
n
C.118 (1963) C.118 (1963) C.118 (1963) d a
Poland C.102 (2003) C.102 (2003) C.102 (2003) C.102 (2003) C.102 (2003)
rd
s
a
Portugal C.102 (1994) C.102 (1994) C.102 (1994) C.102 (1994) C.102 (1994) C.102 (1994) C.102 (1994) C.102 (1994) C.102 (1994) n
d
C.183 (2012) h
u
Romania C.102 (2009) C.102 (2009) C.102 (2009) C.102 (2009) C.102 (2009) m
C.168 (1992) C.183 (2002) a n
Russian Federation C.102 (2019) 7 C.102 (2019) 7 C.102 (2019) 7 C.102 (2019) 7 C.102 (2019) 7 C.102 (2019) 7 C.102 (2019) 7 rig
h
San Marino C.183 (2019) 8 ts
in
Serbia C.102 (2000) C.102 (2000) C.102 (2000) C.102 (2000) C.102 (2000) C.102 (2000) C.102 (2000) s
C.121 (2000) C.183 (2010)
tru
m
Slovakia C.102 (1993) C.102 (1993) C.102 (1993) C.102 (1993) C.102 (1993) C.102 (1993) C.102 (1993) e
n
2 C.130 (1993) C.130 (1993) C.128 (1993) C.183 (2000) ts
7
3

--- Page 280 ---
2 7 4 Medica l care Sickn ess Unempl oyment Old age Em B p
i
r
n
l a o
ju
n y
r
c m
y
h e nt Fam ily Mate rnity Inval idity Survi vors w M o i r g k r e a r n s t a B u ild
in
g
C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 C.102 s
o
C.130 C.130 C.168 C.128 C.121 C.183 C.128 C.128 C.118 b c ia
Country C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.118 C.157 l
p
Slovenia C.102 (1992) C.102 (1992) C.102 (1992) C.102 (1992) C.102 (1992) C.102 (1992) C.102 (1992)
ro
C.121 (1992) C.183 (2010)
te
c
Spain C.102 (1988) C.102 (1988) C.102 (1988) C.102 (1988) C.157 (1985)
tio
n
s
Sweden C.102 (1953) C.102 (1953) C.102 (1953) C.102 (1953) C.102 (1953) C.102 (1953) y
s
C.130 (1970) C.130 (1970) C.168 (1990) C.128 (1968) C.121 (1969) C.128 (1968) C.128 (1968) C.157 (1984) te
C.118 (1963) C.118 (1963) C.118 (1963) C.118 (1963) C.118 (1963) C.118 (1963) m
s
Switzerland C.102 (1977) C.102 (1977) C.102 (1977) C.102 (1977) C.102 (1977) (re
C.168 (1990) C.128 (1977) C.183 (2014) C.128 (1977) C.128 (1977) v
is
Turkey C.102 (1975) C.102 (1975) C.102 (1975) C.102 (1975) C.102 (1975) C.102 (1975) C.102 (1975) e d
C.118 (1974) C.118 (1974) C.118 (1974) C.118 (1974) C.118 (1974) C.118 (1974) C.118 (1974) C.118 (1974) )
Ukraine C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016) C.102 (2016)
United Kingdom C.102 (1954) C.102 (1954) C.102 (1954) C.102 (1954) C.102 (1954) C.102 (1954)
Notes: a While all international social security standards apply to migrant workers unless otherwise stated, C.118 and C.157 are of particular relevance to migrant workers. b Parts of
C.118 apply for selected branches (see other columns).
1 Benin: C.102 entered into force on 14 June 2020.
2 Cabo Verde: C.102 entered into force on 10 January 2021.
3 Mauritius: C.183 entered into force on 13 June 2020.
4 Morocco: C.102 entered into force on 14 June 2020.
5 Niger: C.183 entered into force on 10 June 2020.
6 Finland, Japan, Netherlands, Uruguay: Accepted the text of the List of Occupational Diseases (Schedule I) amended by the ILC at its 66th Session (1980).
7 Russian Federation. C.102 entered into force on 26 February 2020.
8 San Marino. C.183 entered into force on 19 June 2020.

--- Page 281 ---
Annex IV. Map of ratification of ILO up-to-date social security conventions
In
te
rn
a
tio
n
a
l
s
ta
n
d
a
rd
s
a
n
d
h
u
m
a
n
rig
h
ts
in
s
tru
m
e
n
2 ts
7
5

--- Page 282 ---
Building social protection systems
Annex V. List of other relevant instruments
International human rights instruments
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, 1965
Convention relating to the Status of Refugees, 1951 and Convention relating to the Status of
Stateless Persons, 1954
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, 2007
International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and their Families,
1990
Regional human rights instruments
Africa
The African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights, 1981
Americas
American Declaration on the Rights and Duties of Persons, 1948
Additional Protocol to the American Convention on Human Rights in the Area of Economic, Social
and Cultural Rights, 1988
Inter-American Convention on Protection the Human Rights of Older Persons, 2015
Arab States
The Arab Charter on Human Rights, 2004
Association of Southeast Asian Nations
ASEAN Human Rights Declaration, 2013
Commonwealth of Independent States
Commonwealth of Independent States Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental
Freedoms, 1995
Europe
Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, 2000
The European Social Charter, 1961
Regional social security instruments
European Code of Social Security, 1964
276

--- Page 283 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Regional coordination instruments
ASEAN Declaration on the Protection and Promotion of the Rights of Migrant Workers, 2007
CAN Andean Social Security Instrument, 2004
CARICOM Agreement on Social Security, 1996
CIPRES Multilateral Convention on Social Security, 2006
Council of Europe. Conference on Access to Social Rights – Declaration of Malta, 2002
Ibero-American Multilateral Agreement on Social Security, 2007
Inter-American Conference on Social Security (CISS), 1942
ISSA-IAPSF Declaration on Social Security of Migrant Labour and Globalization, 2005
Mercosur Multilateral Social Security Agreement, 1991
Multilateral Convention on Social Security of the Members of the Inter-African Conference on
Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS), 1991
SADC Code of Social Security, 2007
Unified Law on Insurance Protection Extension (covering the six member-states of the Gulf
Cooperation Council), 1981
Other relevant ILO standards covering specific categories of workers
Agricultural workers
C110 – Plantations Convention, 1958 (No. 110)
P110 – Protocol of 1982 to the Plantations Convention, 1958
R110 – Plantations Recommendation, 1958 (No. 110)
R132 – Tenants and Share-croppers Recommendation, 1968 (No. 132)
Domestic workers
C189 – Domestic Workers Convention, 2011 (No. 189)
R201 – Domestic Workers Recommendation, 2011 (No. 201)
Fishers
C188 – Work in Fishing Convention, 2007 (No. 188)
R199 – Work in Fishing Recommendation, 2007 (No. 199)
Homeworkers
C177 – Home Work Convention, 1996 (No. 177)
R184 – Home Work Recommendation, 1996 (No. 184)
Indigenous and tribal peoples
C169 – Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, 1989 (No. 169)
R104 – Indigenous and Tribal Populations Recommendation, 1957 (No. 104)
277

--- Page 284 ---
Building social protection systems
Migrant workers
C097 – Migration for Employment Convention (Revised), 1949 (No. 97)
R086 – Migration for Employment Recommendation (Revised), 1949 (No. 86)
C143 – Migrant Workers (Supplementary Provisions) Convention, 1975 (No. 143)
R151 – Migrant Workers Recommendation, 1975 (No. 151)
Nursing personnel
C149 – Nursing Personnel Convention, 1977 (No. 149)
R157 – Nursing Personnel Recommendation, 1977 (No. 157)
Part-time workers
C175 – Part-Time Work Convention, 1994 (No. 175)
R182 – Part-Time Work Recommendation, 1994 (No. 182)
Persons with disabilities
R168 – Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (Disabled Persons) Recommendation, 1983
(No. 168)
Seafarers
MLC, 2006 – Maritime Labour Convention, 2006 (MLC, 2006)
Workers in an employment relationship
R198 - Employment Relationship Recommendation, 2006 (No. 198)
Workers with family responsibilities
C156 – Workers with Family Responsibilities Convention, 1981 (No. 156)
R165 – Workers with Family Responsibilities Recommendation, 1981 (No. 165)
Older workers
R162 – Older Workers Recommendation, 1980 (No. 162)
278

--- Page 285 ---
International standards and human rights instruments
Annex VI. Additional useful references
International Labour Office (ILO). 2002: Standards for the XXIst Century. Social Security (Geneva,
International Labour Office).
—. 2011. Social Security and the rule of law, Report III (Part 1B), International Labour
Conference, 100th Session (Geneva, 2011). Available at:
http://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/@ed_norm/@relconf/documents/meetingdocume
nt/wcms_152602.pdf.
—. 2011. Social Security and the Rule of Law: General Survey concerning social security
instruments in the light of the 2008 Declaration on Social Justice for a Fair Globalization,
Report III (Part 1B), International Labour Conference, 100th Session (Geneva, 2011).
Available at:
http://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---ed_norm/---
relconf/documents/meetingdocument/wcms_152602.pdf.
—. 2011. Social security for social justice and a fair globalization: Recurrent discussion on social
protection (social security) under the ILO Declaration on Social Justice for a Fair
Globalization, Report VI, International Labour Conference, 100th Session (Geneva, 2011).
Available at:
http://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/@ed_norm/@relconf/documents/meetingdocume
nt/wcms_152819.pdf.
—. 2012. Social protection floors for social justice and a fair globalization, Report IV(1),
International Labour Conference, 101th Session (Geneva, 2012). Available at:
http://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/@ed_norm/@relconf/documents/meetingdocumen
t/
wcms_160210.pdf.
—. 2012. Social protection floors for social justice and a fair globalization, Report IV(2A),
International Labour Conference, 101th Session (Geneva, 2012). Available at:
http://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---ed_norm/---
relconf/documents/meetingdocument/wcms_174694.pdf.
—. 2012. Social protection floors for social justice and a fair globalization, Report IV(2B),
International Labour Conference, 101th Session (Geneva, 2012). Available at:
http://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---ed_norm/---
relconf/documents/meetingdocument/wcms_174637.pdf.
—. 2017a. World Social Protection Report 2017-2019: Universal social protection to achieve the
Sustainable Development Goals. International Labour Office (Geneva, 2017). Available at:
https://www.ilo.org/global/publications/books/WCMS_604882/lang--en/index.htm.
—.2019. Universal social protection for human dignity, social justice and sustainable
development: General Survey concerning the Social Protection Floors Recommendation,
2012 (No. 202), Report III (Part B), International Labour Conference, 108th Session,
Geneva, 2019 (Geneva). Available at:
https://www.ilo.org/global/standards/WCMS_673942/lang--en/index.htm.
—.2020. Promoting employment and decent work in a changing landscape, Report III (Part B)
International Labour Conference, 109th session, Geneva, 2020 (Geneva). Available at:
https://www.ilo.org/ilc/ILCSessions/109/reports/reports-to-the-
conference/WCMS_736873/lang--en/index.htm
United Nations (UN). 2000. General Comment No. 14: The right to the highest attainable
standard of health (art. 14). Doc. E/C.12/2000/4 (Geneva, United Nations Economic and
Social Council: Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights). Available at:
http://www.refworld.org/docid/4538838d0.html.
279

--- Page 286 ---
Building social protection systems
—. 2008. General Comment No. 19: The right to social security (art. 19). Doc. E/C.12/GC/19
(Geneva, United Nations Economic and Social Council: Committee on Economic, Social
and Cultural Rights). Available at: http://www.refworld.org/docid/47b17b5b39c.html.
—. 2012. Final draft of the guiding principles on extreme poverty and human rights, submitted
by the Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights, Magdalena Sepúlveda
Carmona, A/HRC/21/39 (New York, United Nations). Available at:
https://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Publications/OHCHR_ExtremePovertyandHumanRights_
EN.pdf
—. 2015. Report of the Special Rapporteur on the rights of persons with disabilities, A/70/297
(New York, United Nations). Available at:
http://www.un.org/en/ga/search/view_doc.asp?symbol=A/70/297.
—. 2016. Report of the Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights, Mr. Philip
Alston, on the implementation of the right to social protection through the adoption of social
protection floors, A/69/297 (New York, United Nations). Available at: http://socialprotection-
humanrights.org/resource/report-of-the-special-rapporteur-on-extreme-poverty-and-human-
rights-a69297/.
Relevant web pages
International Labour Organization: www.ilo.org.
International Labour Standards Department: www.ilo.org/normes.
International Social Protection Department: http://www.ilo.org/secsoc.
NORMLEX (www.ilo.org/normlex) is an information system which contains information on International
Labour Standards (such as ratification information, reporting requirements, comments of the ILO’s super-
visory bodies, etc.) as well as national labour and social security laws.
Social Protection Platform (www.social-protection.org) is a global knowledge sharing tool, developed and
run by the Social Protection Department.
Social Protection and Human Rights Platform (www.socialprotection-humanrights.org) is a joint UN plat-
form with the aim to enhance awareness of, and develop the capacity to, implement a human rights-
based approach to social protection.
Toolkit on ILO Social Security Standards – learn, ratify and apply (https://www.social-protec-
tion.org/gimi/Standards.action?lang=EN) is an interactive platform that provides practical information
and tools on the ratification and application of the ILO Social Security Standards.
280