--- Page 1 ---
1
ILO Social Protection Floors
Recommendation, 2012 (No. 202)
X T he relevance of R202 for trade unions
X Three ideas are behind the Social Protection Floors For these three reasons, it is crucial that workers’
Recommendation, 2012 (No. 202): organisations are involved in crafting crisis responses:
the impact goes at the very heart of their raison d’être,
• a ll members of society should enjoy at least a basic
and their involvement will ensure societies that are, in
level of social protection throughout their lives;
the future, better adjusted to their needs and demands.
• s ocial protection has proven to be a powerful
Workers’ organisations may rely on R202 to remind
mechanism to mitigate the negative impact of crises
member States of the commitment they took at the
and beyond; and
ILC when they adopted this Recommendation. R202
• s ocial dialogue promotes the democratic was adopted unanimously by all – governments
participation in the policy-making process of the (with the abstention of one country), employers and
people most directly concerned and ensures that workers. It is an international law instrument and
the involvement of the social partners helps ensure Governments are expected to respect its guidance.
that social protection policies are legitimate, fair and Workers Organisations can request that it is taken
adapted to the real needs and priorities of workers into account.
and employers.
X T he relevance of the R202 in times of the COVID-19 crisis
I LO Brief
Lessons from the implementation of training and R202 was adopted by ILO constituents in the aftermath The COVID-19 crisis, which originated as a public
retraining programmes in response to the Great Recession of the 2008 financial and economic crisis, expressing health crisis, has also developed into a global social
the commitment of member States to ensure that all and economic crisis, with severe and potentially lasting
members of society enjoy at least a basic level of social impacts on not only economies, employment and trade,
protection throughout their lives. but on livelihoods. It calls for the extension of basic
social protection to all those in need.
Social protection systems have proven to be powerful
anti-crisis measures. Social protection protects and
empowers people, increases resilience, while at the
same time it contributes to boosting economic demand
and accelerating recovery. It plays a crucial role in
furthering social cohesion and inclusion, equality and
social justice, as well as sustainable social and economic
development.

--- Page 2 ---
2
X T he content of R202 in a nutshell
X The Recommendation provides guidance X How to implement a national social
to countries: protection floors?
• in establishing and maintaining national social National social protection floors should be established
protection floors as a fundamental element of their according to each individual nation’s priorities and
national social security systems and resources and designed and implemented with the
participation of all social partners. It may be achieved
• i n implementing their floors within strategies for the
through a variety of means, including contributory
extension of social security that progressively ensure
or non-contributory social transfers. It should be
higher levels of social security to as many people as
implemented through national legislation and be
possible, guided by ILO social security standards.
progressively enhanced according to the economic
development of each country.
X What are national social protection floors1? R202 has a very strong social dialogue component, as
it requires Members, while recognizing the overall and
National social protection floors are a set of basic social
primary responsibility of the State in giving effect to this
security guarantees, which secure protection aimed at
Recommendation, to apply the principles of full respect
preventing or alleviating poverty, vulnerability and social
for collective bargaining and freedom of association
exclusion. These guarantees should at least include:
for all workers as well as tripartite participation
• a ccess to essential health care, including maternity with representative organizations of employers and
care; workers. It further requires, that Members should
give due consideration to tripartite participation
• b asic income security for children, providing access
with representative organizations of employers and
to nutrition, education, care and any other necessary
workers when establishing and reviewing the levels
goods and services;
of the basic social security guarantees. In addition,
• b asic income security for persons in active age who the progress in implementing social protection floors
are unable to earn sufficient income, in particular should be monitored through appropriate nationally
in cases of sickness, unemployment, maternity and defined mechanisms, including tripartite participation
disability; with representative organizations of employers and
workers.
• b asic income security for older persons.
X B asic principles when establishing and maintain
social protection floors
The Recommendation comprises a set of principles,
including the overall and primary responsibility of the
State; a rights-based approach based on entitlements
prescribed by national law; diversity of methods and
approaches; progressive realization; universality of
protection based on social solidarity; adequacy and
predictability of benefits; protection of rights and dignity
of beneficiaries; non-discrimination, gender equality
and responsiveness to special needs; financial, fiscal
and economic sustainability; transparent, accountable
and sound financial management and administration;
as well as tripartite participation and consultation with
representatives of persons concerned.
1 P lease see the ILO General Survey 2019 on R 202 Universal social protection for human dignity, social justice and sustainable development:
https://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---ed_norm/---relconf/documents/meetingdocument/wcms_673680.pdf