--- Page 1 ---
(cid:88) ILO Flagship Report
(cid:88) World
Social
Protection
Report
2020–22
Social protection
at the crossroads
– in pursuit of
a better future
Executive summary

--- Page 2 ---
Executive summary 1
Despite progress in recent years in extending a “stimulus gap” arising largely from significant
social protection in many parts of the world, when coverage and financing gaps.
the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic
Socio-economic recovery remains uncertain and
hit many countries were still facing significant
enhanced social protection spending will continue
challenges in making the human right to social
to be crucial. The most recent IMF forecasts warn
security a reality for all. This report provides a
of a divergent recovery, whereby richer countries
global overview of progress made around the
enjoy a swift economic rebound while lower-
world over the past decade in extending social
income nations see a reversal of their recent
protection and building rights-based social
development gains. Ensuring a human-centred
protection systems, including floors, and covers
recovery everywhere is contingent on equitable
the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. In doing
access to vaccines. This is not only a moral
so, it provides an essential contribution to the
imperative, but also a public health necessity: a
monitoring framework of the 2030 Agenda for
deep chasm in vaccine availability will unleash
Sustainable Development.
new viral mutations that undermine the public
health benefits of vaccines everywhere. Already,
Five messages emerge from the report:
however, inequitable vaccine access, yawning
The pandemic has exposed deep-seated stimulus gaps visible in the crisis response,
inequalities and significant gaps in social unfulfilled calls for global solidarity, increasing
protection coverage, comprehensiveness poverty and inequalities, and recourse to austerity
and adequacy across all countries. Pervasive cuts all indicate the prospect of uneven recovery.
challenges such as high levels of economic Such a scenario will leave many people to fend for
insecurity, persistent poverty, rising inequality, themselves and derail the progress made towards
extensive informality and a fragile social contract the achievement of the 2030 Agenda and the
have been exacerbated by COVID-19. The crisis realization of social justice.
also exposed the vulnerability of billions of
Countries are at a crossroads with regard to the
people who seemed to be getting by relatively
trajectory of their social protection systems. If
well but were not adequately protected from the
there is a silver lining to this crisis, it is the potent
socio-economic shock waves it has emitted. The
reminder it has provided of the critical importance
pandemic’s socio-economic impacts have made
of investing in social protection; yet many countries
it difficult for policymakers to ignore a number
also face significant fiscal constraints. This report
of population groups – including children, older
shows that nearly all countries, irrespective of
persons, unpaid carers, and women and men
their level of development, have a choice: whether
working in diverse forms of employment and
to pursue a “high-road” strategy of investing in
in the informal economy – who were covered
reinforcing their social protection systems or
either inadequately or not at all by existing social
a “low-road” strategy of minimalist provision,
protection measures. In revealing these gaps, this
succumbing to fiscal or political pressures.
report shows that the pandemic has propelled
Countries can use the policy window prised open
countries into unprecedented policy action, with
by the pandemic and build on their crisis-response
social protection at the forefront.
measures to strengthen their social protection
COVID-19 provoked an unparalleled social systems and progressively close protection gaps
protection policy response. Governments in order to ensure that everyone is protected
marshalled social protection as a front-line against both systemic shocks and ordinary life-
response to protect people’s health, jobs and cycle risks. This would involve increased efforts
incomes, and to ensure social stability. Where to build universal, comprehensive, adequate and
necessary, governments extended coverage to sustainable social protection systems, including
hitherto unprotected groups, increased benefit a solid social protection floor that guarantees at
levels or introduced new benefits, adapted least a basic level of social security for all over
administrative and delivery mechanisms, the course of their lives. The alternative would
and mobilized additional financial resources. be to acquiesce in a low-road approach that fails
However, despite some international support, to invest in social protection, thereby trapping
many low- and middle-income countries have countries in a “low cost–low human development”
struggled to mount a proportionate social trajectory. This would represent a lost possibility
protection and stimulus response to contain the for strengthening social protection systems and
pandemic’s adverse impacts in the way that high- reconfiguring societies for a better future.
income countries have been able to do, leading to

--- Page 3 ---
2 X World Social Protection Report 2020–22: Social protection at the crossroads – in pursuit of a better future
Establishing universal social protection and to preventing poverty and containing inequality,
realizing the human right to social security for all enhancing human capabilities and productivity,
is the cornerstone of a human-centred approach fostering dignity, solidarity and fairness, and
to obtaining social justice. Doing so contributes reinvigorating the social contract.
X The state of social protection:
Progress made, but not enough
As of 2020, only 46.9 per cent of the global This financing gap for building social protection
population were effectively covered by at least floors has widened by approximately 30 per cent
one social protection benefit1 (Sustainable since the onset of the COVID-19 crisis, owing to the
Development Goal (SDG) indicator 1.3.1; see increased need for healthcare services, income
figure 1), while the remaining 53.1 per cent – as security measures, and reductions in GDP caused
many as 4.1 billion people – were left wholly by the crisis. To guarantee at least a basic level of
unprotected. Behind this global average, there are social security through a nationally defined social
significant inequalities across and within regions, protection floor, lower-middle-income countries
with coverage rates in Europe and Central Asia would need to invest an additional US$362.9 billion
(83.9 per cent) and the Americas (64.3 per cent) and upper-middle-income countries a further
above the global average, while Asia and the US$750.8 billion per year, equivalent to 5.1 and
Pacific (44.1 per cent), the Arab States (40.0 per 3.1 per cent of GDP respectively for the two
cent) and Africa (17.4 per cent) have far more groups. Low-income countries would need to
marked coverage gaps. invest an additional US$77.9 billion, equivalent
to 15.9 per cent of their GDP.
Access to healthcare, sickness and unemployment
benefits has taken on particular relevance during COVID-19 threatens to imperil years of progress
the pandemic. While almost two thirds of the towards achieving the Sustainable Development
global population are protected by a health Goals (SDGs), reversing gains in poverty reduction.
scheme of some kind, significant coverage and It has also revealed the pre-existing stark
adequacy gaps remain. When it comes to income protection gaps across all countries and made
protection during sickness and unemployment, it impossible for policymakers to ignore the
the coverage and adequacy gaps are even more persistent social protection deficits experienced
pronounced. Approximately a third of working-age in particular by certain groups, such as informal
people have their income security protected by workers, migrants and unpaid carers.
law in case of sickness, and less than a fifth of
This crisis has resulted in an unprecedented
unemployed workers worldwide actually receive
yet uneven global social protection response.
unemployment benefits.
Higher-income countries were better placed to
Gaps in the coverage, comprehensiveness mobilize their existing systems or introduce new
and adequacy of social protection systems are emergency measures to contain the impact of
associated with significant underinvestment in the crisis on health, jobs and incomes. Mounting
social protection, particularly in Africa, the Arab a response was more challenging in lower-income
States and Asia. Countries spend on average contexts, which were woefully ill prepared and
12.9 per cent of their GDP on social protection had less room for policy manoeuvre, especially in
(excluding health), but this figure masks macroeconomic policy.
staggering variations. High-income countries
spend on average 16.4 per cent, or twice as much
as upper-middle-income countries (which spend
8 per cent), six times as much as lower-middle-
income countries (2.5 per cent), and 15 times as
much as low-income countries (1.1 per cent).
1 Excluding healthcare and sickness benefits.

--- Page 4 ---
Executive summary 3
Population covered by at least one social protection benefit 46.9
Children 26.4
Mothers with newborns 44.9
Persons with severe disabilities 33.5
Workers in case of work injury 35.4
Unemployed 18.6
Older persons 77.5
Vulnerable persons covered by social assistance 28.9
Population covered by at least one social protection benefit 17.4
Children 12.6
Mothers with newborns 14.9
Persons with severe disabilities 9.3
Workers in case of work injury 18.4
Unemployed 5.3
Older persons 27.1
Vulnerable persons covered by social assistance 9.3
Population covered by at least one social protection benefit 64.3
Children 57.4
Mothers with newborns 51.9
Persons with severe disabilities 71.8
Workers in case of work injury 57.4
Unemployed 16.4
Older persons 88.1
Vulnerable persons covered by social assistance 36.7
Population covered by at least one social protection benefit 40.0
Children 15.4 *
Mothers with newborns 12.2
Persons with severe disabilities 7.2
Workers in case of work injury 63.5
Unemployed 8.7 *
Older persons 24.0
Vulnerable persons covered by social assistance 32.2
Population covered by at least one social protection benefit 44.1
Children 18.0
Mothers with newborns 45.9
Persons with severe disabilities 21.6
Workers in case of work injury 24.8
Unemployed 14.0
Older persons 73.5
Vulnerable persons covered by social assistance 25.3
Population covered by at least one social protection benefit 83.9
Children 82.3
Mothers with newborns 83.6
Persons with severe disabilities 86.0
Workers in case of work injury 75.5
Unemployed 51.3
Older persons 96.7
Vulnerable persons covered by social assistance 64.4
dlroW
acirfA
saciremA
setatS
barA
cificaP
eht
dna
aisA
eporuE
aisA
lartneC
dna
X Figure 1. SDG indicator 1.3.1: Effective social protection coverage, global
and regional estimates, by population group, 2020 or latest available year
0 20 40 60 80 100
% of the population group
*To be interpreted with caution: estimates based on reported data coverage below 40% of the population.
Notes: See Annex 2 for methodological explanation. Global and regional aggregates are weighted by relevant
population groups.
Sources: ILO, World Social Protection Database, based on the Social Security Inquiry; ILOSTAT; national sources.

--- Page 5 ---
4 X World Social Protection Report 2020–22: Social protection at the crossroads – in pursuit of a better future
X Social protection for children remains limited,
yet is critical for unlocking their potential
Highlights X On average, national expenditure on social
protection for children is too low, equating to
only 1.1 per cent of GDP, compared to 7 per cent
X The vast majority of children still have no of GDP spent on pensions. The regions of the
effective social protection coverage, and only world with the largest share of children in the
26.4 per cent of children globally receive social population, and the greatest need for social
protection benefits. Effective coverage is protection, have some of the lowest coverage
particularly low in some regions: 18 per cent in and expenditure rates, especially sub-Saharan
Asia and the Pacific, 15.4 per cent in the Arab Africa (0.4 per cent of GDP).
States and 12.6 per cent in Africa. X To address the dramatic increase in child
X Positive recent developments include the poverty caused by COVID-19, close social
adoption of universal or quasi-universal child protection coverage gaps and deliver the best
benefits (UCBs/qUCBs) in several countries, results for children and society, policymakers
and renewed awareness in the context of must implement an integrated systems
COVID-19 of the critical importance of inclusive approach including child benefits and childcare
social protection systems, quality childcare services, provision of parental leave and access
services and the need for social protection for to healthcare.
caregivers.
X Social protection for women and men
of working age provides insufficient protection
against key risks
Highlights X Employment injury: Only 35.4 per cent of the
global labour force have effective access to
employment injury protection. Many countries
X Maternity: Some countries have made decisive have recognized COVID-19 as an occupational
injury in order to ensure easier and faster
progress towards universal or near-universal
access to associated benefits under the work
effective maternity coverage. Despite the
injury insurance system, in particular for
positive developmental impacts of supporting
workers in the most exposed sectors.
childbearing women, only 44.9 per cent of
women with newborns worldwide receive a X Unemployment protection: A mere 18.6 per
cash maternity benefit. cent of unemployed workers worldwide have
X Sickness: The crisis has demonstrated the effective coverage for unemployment and
thus actually receive unemployment benefits.
importance of ensuring income security during
This remains the least developed branch of
ill health, including quarantine. However, only
social protection. However, the pandemic has
a third of the world’s working-age population
highlighted the crucial role of unemployment
have their income security protected by law in
protection schemes to protect jobs and
the event of sickness.
incomes, through job retention schemes and
X Disability: The share of people with severe
unemployment benefits.
disabilities worldwide who receive a disability
X Expenditure estimates show that worldwide
benefit remains low at 33.5 per cent.
only 3.6 per cent of GDP is spent on public
Importantly, several countries now have
social protection to ensure income security for
universal disability benefit programmes in
people of working age.
place.

--- Page 6 ---
Executive summary 5
X Social protection for older women and men
still faces coverage and adequacy challenges
Highlights massive response of countries to the crisis
has highlighted the critical role that old-age
protection systems, including long-term care,
X Pensions for older women and men are the play in ensuring the protection of older adults,
particularly in times of crisis, and the urgency
most widespread form of social protection in
of strengthening long-term care systems to
the world, and a key element in achieving SDG
protect the rights of care recipients and care
target 1.3. Globally, 77.5 per cent of people
workers alike.
above retirement age receive some form of
old-age pension. However, major disparities X Pension reforms have been dominated by
remain across regions, between rural and an emphasis on fiscal sustainability, at the
urban areas, and between women and men. expense of other principles established by
Expenditure on pensions and other benefits for international social security standards, such as
older people accounts for 7.0 per cent of GDP the universality, adequacy and predictability
on average, again with large variations across of benefits, solidarity and collective financing.
regions. These are critical for guaranteeing the income
X Significant progress has been made with security of older people, which is and should
remain the primary objective of any pension
respect to extending the coverage of pension
system. Ensuring the adequacy of benefits
systems in developing countries. Even more
is especially pertinent for women, people in
encouraging, in a wide range of countries,
low-paid jobs and those in precarious forms
including lower-middle-income countries,
of employment. Moreover, many countries
universal pensions have been developed as
around the world are still struggling to extend
part of national social protection floors.
and finance their pension systems; these
X The COVID-19 crisis has brought additional
countries face structural barriers linked to low
pressures to bear on the costs and financing
levels of economic development, high levels of
of pension systems, but the impact over
informality, low contributory capacity, poverty
the long term will be moderate to low. The
and insufficient fiscal space, among others.
X Social health protection: An essential contribution
to universal health coverage
Highlights X Collective financing, broad risk-pooling and
rights-based entitlements are key conditions
for supporting effective access to healthcare
X Significant progress has been made in for all in a shock-responsive manner. The
principles provided by international social
increasing population coverage, with almost
security standards are more relevant than ever
two thirds of the global population protected
on the road to universal health coverage, and
by a scheme. However, barriers to accessing
in particular within the current public health
healthcare remain in the form of out-of-
context. More and better data on legal coverage
pocket payments on health services, physical
need to be collected as a matter of priority to
distance, limitations in the range, quality and
monitor progress on coverage and equity.
acceptability of health services, and long
waiting times, as well as opportunity costs X Investing in the availability of quality healthcare
such as lost working time. The COVID-19 crisis services is crucial. The COVID-19 pandemic has
has highlighted the limitations of benefit further revealed the need to invest in healthcare
adequacy and the need to reduce out-of-pocket services and to improve coordination within
payments. the health system. The pandemic is drawing
attention to the challenges faced in recruiting,

--- Page 7 ---
6 X World Social Protection Report 2020–22: Social protection at the crossroads – in pursuit of a better future
deploying, retaining and protecting well- behaviours to foster prevention and the
trained, supported and motivated health complementarity of healthcare and sickness
workers to ensure the delivery of quality benefit schemes. Coordinated approaches are
healthcare services. particularly needed in respect of special and
X Stronger linkages and better coordination emerging needs, including human mobility, the
increasing burden of long and chronic diseases,
between mechanisms for accessing medical
and population ageing. The impact of COVID-19
care and income security are needed to address
on older people has shed additional light on
key determinants of health more effectively.
the need for coordination between health and
The COVID-19 crisis has further highlighted the
social care.
role of the social protection system in shaping
X Taking the high road towards universal
social protection for a socially just future
COVID-19 has further underscored the critical with the collective well-being and security of
importance of achieving universal social protection. others – the pandemic has demonstrated the
It is essential that countries – governments, social indispensability of social protection. Moreover,
partners and other stakeholders – now resist the the crisis has shown that there is significant
pressures to fall back on a low-road trajectory and scope for countries to adopt a “whatever it takes”
that they pursue a high-road social protection mindset to accomplish priority goals if they so
strategy to contend with the ongoing pandemic, choose. If the same policy approach is applied
and to secure a human-centred recovery and an as the worst of the pandemic abates, this holds
inclusive future. To this end, several priorities can promise for taking the high road to achieve the
be identified. SDGs and universal social protection.
X COVID-19 social protection measures must be X Taking that high road requires building
maintained until the crisis has subsided and permanent universal social protection systems
recovery is well under way. This will require that provide adequate and comprehensive
continued investment in social protection coverage to all, guided by effective tripartite
systems to maintain living standards, ensure social dialogue. These systems are essential
equitable vaccine access and healthcare, and for preventing poverty and inequality, and for
prevent further economic contraction. Ensuring addressing today’s and tomorrow’s challenges,
equitable and timely access to vaccines is in particular by promoting decent work,
crucial for the health and prosperity of all supporting women and men in better navigating
countries and peoples. In an interconnected their life and work transitions, facilitating the
world, a truly inclusive recovery hinges on this. transition of workers and enterprises from the
X The temptation to revert to fiscal consolidation informal to the formal economy, bolstering
to pay for the massive public expenditure the structural transformation of economies,
outlays necessitated by COVID-19 must and supporting the transition to more
be avoided. Previous crises have shown environmentally sustainable economies and
that austerity leaves deep social scarring, societies.
hurting the most vulnerable in society. X Further investment in social protection is
Conversely, striving for a jobs-rich, human- required now to fill financing gaps. In particular,
centred recovery, aligned with health, social, prioritizing investments in nationally defined
environmental and climate change goals, can social protection floors is vital for delivering
contribute to income security, job creation and on the promise of the 2030 Agenda. Fiscal
social cohesion objectives, expand the tax base space exists even in the poorest countries
and help finance universal social protection. and domestic resource mobilization is key, but
X Amid the devastation wrought by the pandemic, concerted international support is also critical
there are glimmers of hope that mindsets have for fast-tracking progress in those countries
shifted. By exposing the inherent vulnerability lacking fiscal and economic capacities,
of everyone – making it explicit that our especially in low-income countries with marked
individual well-being is intimately bound up underinvestment in social protection.

--- Page 8 ---
Executive summary 7
X Universal social protection is supported X The unique policy window prised open by
through the joint efforts of the United Nations COVID-19 should embolden countries to
agencies “working as one”, and through take decisive action now about the future
concerted efforts with relevant international, of social protection and pursue a high-road
regional, subregional and national institutions policy approach with vigour. Doing so will
and social partners, civil society and other empower societies to deal with future crises
stakeholders, including through the Global and the challenges posed by demographic
Partnership for Universal Social Protection. change, the evolving world of work, migration,
environmental challenges and the existential
threat of climate change. Ultimately, a robust
social protection system will shore up and
repair a fragile social contract and enable
countries to enjoy a socially just future.

--- Page 9 ---
Advancing social justice,
promoting decent work
The International Labour
Organization is the United
Nations agency for the world
of work. We bring together
governments, employers and
workers to drive a human-centred
approach to the future of work
through employment creation,
rights at work, social protection
and social dialogue.
ilo.org
International Labour Organization International Labour Organization
Route des Morillons 4
@ILO
1211 Geneva 22
Switzerland ILOTV