[DOCUMENT : FAO_RDC_agriculture_emploi.pdf  2 pages]


--- Page 1 ---
GIEWS Country Brief
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Reference Date: 05-February-2026
FOOD SECURITY SNAPSHOT
 Cereal production affected by ongoing conflict and
floods
 Prices of maize and imported rice at high levels in
2025
 More than 26 million people could face acute food
insecurity by 2026
Cereal production affected by ongoing conflict
and floods
Harvesting of the 2025 main maize crop was completed in
November in bimodal rainfall northern provinces, while it is still
underway in the central provinces and concluded in
January 2026. The conflict in the eastern Kivu Region intensified
at the end of January 2025 and resulted in widespread population
displacement. Many farmers have abandoned their land, with
severe disruption of cropping activities, a crucial basis for food
security. The area planted with the 2025 main season maize crop
is estimated to be below the five‑year average. Severe floods
between April and September 2025 damaged cropland in
Kinshasa Region and infrastructure in several provinces, further
constraining the 2025 cereal production. Although insecurity is
currently affecting mainly the eastern part of the country, it is
likely that violence may spread into other areas, with a negative
impact on cereal production, particularly on the 2025 secondary
season maize crop.
Prices of maize and imported rice at high
levels in 2025
High prices for local maize and imported rice remained elevated
throughout 2025 due to the limited availability of these products
in local markets. The food crisis and soaring food prices are part
of a trend that has been gradually intensifying for several years,
exacerbated by food insecurity and economic shocks since at
least 2023, as well as by the limited availability of the Congolese
Franc in the market.
Over 26 million people projected to be
severely acute food insecure in 2026
According to the November 2025 Integrated Food Security Phase
Classification (IPC) analysis, about 24.8 million people (over
20 percent of the analysed population) were estimated to face
acute food insecurity (IPC Phase 3 [Crisis] and above) between
GIEWS global information and early warning system on food and agriculture

--- Page 2 ---
September and December 2025, including 3.2 million people in
IPC Phase 4 (Emergency), primarily located in the territoriesof
Djugu and Mambasa in Ituri Province and Masisi in North Kivu
Province.The IPC projection for January to June 2026 indicates a
deterioration of food security conditions, with 26.6 million people
(22 percent of the population) expected to face IPC Phase 3
(Crisis) or above, an increase of 1.8 million people compared to
the current period. Six additional territories are projected to shift
into IPC Phase 4 (Emergency): Lubero and Walikale in North
Kivu Province, Kalehe and Fizi in South Kivu Province and
Kongolo and Moba in Tanganyika Province, in addition to Djugu,
Mambasa and Masisi, which are already in emergency status
during the current period.
The conflict continues to be a key driver of acute food insecurity,
causing large-scale displacement and severe disruption of
agricultural production and markets, with over 5.28 million people
remaining internally displaced.
Disclaimer: The designations employed and the presentation of material in this
information product do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the
part of FAO concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of
its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
This brief was prepared using the following data/tools:
FAO/GIEWS Country Cereal Balance Sheet (CCBS) https://www.fao.org/giews/data-tools/en/.
FAO/GIEWS Food Price Monitoring and Analysis (FPMA) Tool https://fpma.fao.org/.
FAO/GIEWS Earth Observation for Crop Monitoring https://www.fao.org/giews/earthobservation/.
Integrated Food Security Phase Classification (IPC) https://www.ipcinfo.org/.
GIEWS global information and early warning system on food and agriculture