[DOCUMENT : ONU_WPP_2024_RDC_population.pdf  80 pages]


--- Page 1 ---
World Population
Prospects 2024
Summary of Results

--- Page 2 --- [sans texte]

--- Page 3 ---
UN DESA/POP/2024/TR/NO. 9
Department of Economic and Social Affairs
Population Division
World Population Prospects
2024
Summary of Results
United Nations
New York, 2024

--- Page 4 ---
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division
The Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the United Nations Secretariat is a vital interface between global
policies in the economic, social and environmental spheres and national action. The Department works in three main
interlinked areas: (i) it compiles, generates and analyses a wide range of economic, social and environmental data
and information on which States Members of the United Nations draw to review common problems and take stock of
policy options; (ii) it facilitates the negotiations of Member States in many intergovernmental bodies on joint courses
of action to address ongoing or emerging global challenges; and (iii) it advises interested Governments on the ways
and means of translating policy frameworks developed in United Nations conferences and summits into programmes
at the country level and, through technical assistance, helps build national capacities.
The Population Division of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs provides the international community with
timely and accessible population data and analysis of population trends and development outcomes for all countries
and areas of the world. To this end, the Division undertakes regular studies of population size and characteristics
and of all three components of population change (fertility, mortality and migration). Founded in 1946, the Population
Division provides substantive support on population and development issues to the United Nations General Assembly,
the Economic and Social Council and the Commission on Population and Development. It also leads or participates in
various interagency coordination mechanisms of the United Nations system. The work of the Division also contributes
to strengthening the capacity of Member States to monitor population trends and to address current and emerging
population issues.
Suggested citation
United Nations (2024). World Population Prospects 2024: Summary of Results. UN DESA/POP/2024/TR/NO. 9. New
York: United Nations.
This report is available in electronic format on the Division’s website at www.unpopulation.org. For further information
about this report, please contact the Office of the Director, Population Division, Department of Economic and Social
Affairs, United Nations, New York, 10017, USA, by Fax: 1 212 963 2147 or by email at population@un.org.
Copyright information
Front cover: “Children play on a newly constructed playground by the community nutrition site in the village of
Soavina in Madagascar (2019)”, World Bank / Sarah Farhat.
Back cover: “Families enjoying an afternoon in Simon Bolivar Park in Bogotá, Colombia on January 11, 2016”. World
Bank / Dominic Chavez.
United Nations Publication
Sales No.: E.22.XIII.5
ISBN: 9789210031691
eISBN: 9789211065138
Copyright © United Nations, 2024.
Figures and tables in this publication can be reproduced without prior permission under a Creative Commons license
(CC BY 3.0 IGO), http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/igo/.
II United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 5 ---
Contents
Acknowledgements ................................................................................................................................IV
Explanatory notes ...................................................................................................................................V
List of abbreviations ..............................................................................................................................VI
Key messages .......................................................................................................................................VII
Introduction .............................................................................................................................................1
Chapter I. Awareness of population trends is critical for achieving a sustainable future ............................3
Chapter II. Countries and areas with populations that have already peaked ............................................15
Chapter III. Countries and areas with populations likely to peak within 30 years .....................................25
Chapter IV. Countries and areas with populations likely to grow through 2054 ........................................33
References ............................................................................................................................................47
Annex 1: What’s new in WPP 2024? .......................................................................................................51
Annex 2: Selected indicators ..................................................................................................................53
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division
III

--- Page 6 ---
Acknowledgements
This report was prepared by a team led by Clare Menozzi including Thomas Spoorenberg and Lina Bassarsky with
additional support from Vladimíra Kantorová and Lubov Zeifman.
The graphs and figures were prepared by a team led by Lina Bassarsky including Mark Wheldon, Giulia Gonnella,
Lubov Zeifman and Danan Gu with additional support from Zirui Chen.
The authors wish to thank John Wilmoth, Karoline Schmid, Patrick Gerland, Cheryl Sawyer, Stephen Kisambira, Sara
Hertog and Mark Wheldon for reviewing the draft.
The World Population Prospects 2024 data were prepared by a team led by Patrick Gerland, including Srikanth
Athaluri, Helena Cruz Castanheira, Fernando Fernandes, Sara Hertog, Yumiko Kamiya, Vladimíra Kantorová, Pablo
Lattes, Kyaw Kyaw Lay, Joseph Molitoris, Suryanarayana Murthy Palacharla, Ivan Prlincevic, José Henrique Monteiro
da Silva, Mark Wheldon, Iván Williams, Chandra Yamarthy and Lubov Zeifman, with the assistance of Fengqing Chao,
Jorge Cimentada, Ivan Čipin, Sehar Ezdi, Giulia Gonnella, Petra Medimurec, Adrian Raftery, James Raymer, Tim
Riffe, Carl Schmertmann, Bruno Schoumaker, Hana Ševčíková, Sladjana Stojanovic and Vladimir Tarailo. The team
is grateful to other colleagues in the Population Division for the support they have provided, as well as colleagues
from the Latin American and Caribbean Demographic Centre, Population Division of the United Nations Economic
Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC), the Demographic Statistics Section of the Statistics
Division of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, and the teams of the United Nations Inter-
Agency Group for Child Mortality Estimation (UN IGME) and the WHO-UN DESA Technical Advisory Group on COVID
Mortality Assessment for their inputs and continuous support.
The assistance of William Dunbar, Donna Culpepper and Bintou Papoute Ouedraogo in editing and desktop publishing
is acknowledged.
IV United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 7 ---
Explanatory notes
The following symbols have been used in the tables throughout this report:
A minus sign (-) before a figure indicates a decrease or negative number.
A full stop (.) is used to indicate decimals.
Unless otherwise stated, years given refer to 1 July.
Use of a dash ( – ) between years, for example, 1995–2000, signifies the full period involved, from 1 July of the first
year to 1 July of the second year.
Numbers and percentages in this table do not necessarily add to totals because of rounding.
References to region, development group, country or area:
The designations employed in this publication and the material presented in it do not imply the expression of any
opinions whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the United Nations concerning the legal status of any country,
territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. The term
“country” as used in this report also refers, as appropriate, to territories or areas.
In this publication, data for countries and areas are often aggregated in six continental regions: Africa, Asia, Europe,
Latin America and the Caribbean, Northern America, and Oceania. Further information on continental regions is
available from: https://unstats.un.org/unsd/methodology/m49/. Countries and areas have also been grouped into
geographic regions based on the classification being used to track progress towards the Sustainable Development
Goals of the United Nations (see: https://unstats.un.org/ sdgs/indicators/regional-groups/).
The designation of “more developed” and “less developed”, or “developed” and “developing”, is intended for
statistical purposes and does not express a judgment about the stage in the development process reached by a
particular country or area. More developed regions comprise all countries and areas of Europe and Northern America,
plus Australia, New Zealand and Japan. Less developed regions comprise all countries and areas of Africa, Asia
(excluding Japan), Latin America and the Caribbean, and Oceania (excluding Australia and New Zealand).
The group of least developed countries (LDCs) includes 45 countries, as of 8 May 2024, located in sub-Saharan
Africa (32), Northern Africa and Western Asia (2), Central and Southern Asia (3), Eastern and South-Eastern Asia (4),
Latin America and the Caribbean (1), and Oceania (3). Further information is available at: https://www.un.org/ohrlls/.
The classification of countries and areas by income level is based on gross national income (GNI) per capita as
reported by the World Bank (May 2024). These income groups are not available for all countries and areas. Further
information is available at: https://datahelpdesk.worldbank.org/knowledgebase/articles/906519.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division
V

--- Page 8 ---
List of abbreviations
AIDS Acquired immune deficiency syndrome
COVID-19 Coronavirus disease 2019
CRVS Civil registration and vital statistics
DALYs Disability-adjusted life years
GBD Global Burden of Diseases
GCC Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf
GDP Gross domestic product
HALE Healthy life expectancy
HIV Human immunodeficiency virus
ICPD International Conference on Population and Development
IHME Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation
IIASA International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis
ISCED International Standard Classification of Education
SDGs Sustainable Development Goals
TFR Total fertility rate
UN DESA United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs
UN IGME United Nations Inter-Agency Group for Child Mortality Estimation
UNICEF United Nations Children’s Fund
WHO World Health Organization
VI United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 9 ---
Key messages
The world’s population is likely to peak within the current century.
• The world’s population is expected to continue growing over the coming 50 or 60 years, reaching a peak of
around 10.3 billion people in the mid-2080s, up from 8.2 billion in 2024.
• After peaking, the global population is projected to start declining gradually, falling to 10.2 billion people by the
end of the century.
• The estimated likelihood that the world’s population will peak within the current century is very high (with a
probability of 80 per cent).
• This represents a major change compared to projections published by the United Nations in 2013, when the
estimated probability that global population growth would end during the twenty-first century was around
30 per cent.
• The size of the world’s population in 2100 is now expected to be 6 per cent smaller – or about 700 million
people fewer – than anticipated a decade ago.
• The earlier occurrence of a peak in the projected size of the global population is due to several factors including
lower-than-expected levels of fertility in recent years in some of the world’s largest countries, particularly
China.
One in four people globally live in a country whose population has already
peaked in size.
• In 63 countries and areas – containing 28 per cent of the world’s population in 2024 – the size of the
population peaked before 2024. This group includes China, Germany, Japan and the Russian Federation.
• The number of people living in these locations is projected to decline by 14 per cent over the next thirty years,
with Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Lithuania, Puerto Rico and the Republic of Moldova recording the
largest relative reductions by 2054 among countries and areas with at least 90,000 inhabitants in 2024.
• In 48 countries and areas, representing 10 per cent of the world’s population in 2024, the population size is
projected to peak between 2025 and 2054. This group includes Brazil, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Türkiye and
Viet Nam.
• The size of the population in these locations is projected to increase by 5.3 per cent over the next thirty years,
with Bhutan, Colombia, Cyprus and the Islamic Republic of Iran among those recording the largest relative
increases by 2054.
• In the remaining 126 countries and areas, the population is likely to continue growing through 2054, potentially
reaching a peak later in the century or beyond 2100. This group includes several of the world’s most populous
countries, such as India, Indonesia, Nigeria, Pakistan and the United States of America.
• The number of people living in these locations is projected to increase by 38 per cent through 2054. In nine
of these countries and areas, including Angola, the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Niger and Somalia, population growth is likely to be very rapid, with populations doubling between
2024 and 2054.
• The trajectory of population change for this last group will have a major influence on the size and timing of the
population peak at the global level.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division
VII

--- Page 10 ---
Women today bear one child fewer, on average, than they did around 1990.
• Currently, the global fertility rate stands at 2.25 live births per woman,1 down from 3.31 births in 1990.
• More than half of all countries and areas globally have fertility below the replacement level of 2.1 live births
per woman. This is the level required for a population to maintain a constant size in the long run without
migration, with each generation followed by another of roughly equal size.
• Currently, nearly one fifth of all countries and areas, including China, Italy, the Republic of Korea and Spain, are
experiencing what is sometimes referred to as “ultra-low” fertility, with fewer than 1.4 live births per woman
over a lifetime.
• For 24 countries with ultra-low fertility in 2024 and where the population has already peaked, a return to
2.1 births per woman or higher within the next 30 years is highly unlikely (probability of 0.1 per cent).
• By the late 2030s, half of the women in countries with populations that have already peaked will be too old to
have children by natural means. Because the share of women in the reproductive age range (roughly, between
15 and 49 years) is projected to decline rapidly in such countries, the impact on population size of policies
aimed at raising fertility levels is likely to diminish over time.
Early childbearing has harmful effects on young mothers and their children.
• Today, the fertility level is at or above 2.1 live births per woman in 45 per cent of countries and areas globally.
Over one in ten countries and areas – mostly in sub-Saharan Africa – have fertility levels of four births or more
per woman. This group includes the Central African Republic, Chad, the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Niger and Somalia.
• Fertility above the replacement level is projected to contribute over one fifth of the population increase through
2054 in those countries and areas where the population is likely to continue growing through 2054.
• In 2024, 4.7 million babies, or about 3.5 per cent of the total worldwide, were born to mothers under age 18.
Of these, some 340,000 were born to girls under age 15, with serious adverse consequences for the health
and well-being of both the young mothers and their children.
• Investing in the education of young people, especially girls, and increasing the average ages at marriage and
first childbearing in locations where these milestone events often occur early will have positive effects on
women’s health, educational attainment and labour force participation.
• Increasing the age at first childbearing contributes to slowing population growth, reducing the scale of the
investments and effort required to achieve sustainable development while ensuring that no one is left behind.
If there were no more births to girls under age 18, the population of sub-Saharan Africa in 2054 would be
3.8 per cent smaller than what is currently projected.
Following the COVID-19 pandemic, global life expectancy is rising once again.
• Globally, life expectancy at birth reached 73.3 years in 2024, an increase of 8.4 years since 1995. Further
reductions in mortality are projected to result in an average longevity of around 77.4 years globally in 2054.
• Since 2022, life expectancy has returned to levels observed before the emergence of the coronavirus disease
(COVID-19) in nearly all countries and areas. At the height of the pandemic (during 2020 and 2021), global life
expectancy at birth fell to 70.9 years, down from 72.6 years in 2019.
• By the late 2050s, it is projected that more than half of all deaths globally will occur at age 80 or higher,
compared to 17 per cent in 1995.
1 In this report, “births” refers to live births.
VIII United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 11 ---
• In 2023, the number of deaths among children under age 5 fell below 5 million for the first time in recent
history; 95 per cent of such deaths took place in the 126 countries and areas with populations that are likely
to grow through 2054, including the Democratic Republic of the Congo, India, Nigeria and Pakistan.
• Dedicating more resources to critical, low-cost treatments and interventions, such as ensuring access to
antenatal and postnatal care, skilled birth attendants, vaccinations and nutritional supplements, would save
millions of lives worldwide over the next decade.
• Increasing levels of life expectancy at birth are expected to contribute to population growth, or to help
mitigate population decline, in nearly all locations over the coming decades. Among countries and areas with
populations that have already peaked, the continuing drop in mortality, together with immigration in some
cases, is expected to slow the population decline caused by fertility below the replacement level.
The main driver of global population increase through mid-century will be the
momentum created by growth in the past.
• Globally, the number of women in the reproductive age range (roughly, between 15 and 49 years) is projected
to grow through the late 2050s, when it will likely peak at around 2.2 billion, up from nearly 2.0 billion in 2024.
Growth in the number of women of reproductive age is conducive to continuing population increase even
when the number of births per woman falls to the replacement level or lower.
• The momentum of past growth that is embedded in the youthful age structure of today’s global population is
projected to contribute 79 per cent of the total increase through 2054, or around 1.4 billion people.
• In a population that is closed to migration, when fertility remains below the replacement level for an extended
period, the number of women of reproductive age starts to decline as successive cohorts become smaller and
smaller. In countries with populations that have already peaked, the number of women in the reproductive age
range is projected to shrink by 33 per cent between 2024 and 2054.
• For some populations, a prolonged history of fertility below the replacement level has resulted in a declining
population and an age distribution that is significantly older than in the past. For 18 countries and areas,
today’s older age distribution is likely to be the main driver of population decline between now and 2054. Even
assuming a substantial rebound in the fertility level, these populations are likely to continue declining in size
because of the momentum of past decline.
• Countries and areas with populations that are projected to peak between now and 2054 tend to have younger
age structures, which are conducive to continued growth. In 25 of these locations, including Brazil, the Islamic
Republic of Iran and Viet Nam, the momentum of past growth is projected to be the main driver of population
growth over the next decades.
• For 88 of the 126 countries and areas with populations likely to grow through 2054, the relative youthfulness
of the population is likely to be the main driver of population growth over the next 30 years, adding to the
impact of current high levels of fertility.
Countries with youthful populations and declining fertility have a limited time
to benefit economically from an increasing concentration of population in the
working ages.
• For nearly all countries and areas with populations that have peaked in size by 2024, and for three quarters of
those with populations projected to peak between 2025 and 2054, the time-bound window of opportunity for
accelerated economic growth associated with a youthful population and declining fertility has already closed.
• In around 100 countries and areas, however, the share of population in the working ages (between 20 and
64 years) will continue to increase more rapidly than the total population between now and 2054, providing a
window of opportunity known as the “demographic dividend”.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division
IX

--- Page 12 ---
• The demographic dividend presents an opportunity to accelerate sustainable development, when a substantial
and sustained decline in fertility leads to an increased concentration of the population in the working ages. To
amplify and prolong this opportunity, sound economic and social policies are needed.
• In countries with youthful populations, substantial investments in education, health care and infrastructure,
along with reforms to promote the creation of opportunities for decent work and to improve the transparency
and efficiency of government institutions, are needed to ensure that this time-bound opportunity is not wasted.
By 2080, persons aged 65 or older will outnumber children under 18.
• By the late 2070s, the number of persons at ages 65 years and higher globally is projected to reach 2.2
billion, surpassing the number of children (under age 18). By the mid-2030s, it is projected that there will be
265 million persons aged 80 years or older, more than the number of infants (1 year of age or less).
• In countries where the size of the population has already peaked or is projected to peak in the coming
decades, the crossover between the number of children and persons aged 65 or older will occur sooner.
• Even in countries with populations that are still growing rapidly and have relatively youthful populations, the
number of persons aged 65 or older is expected to rise over the next 30 years.
• Countries, especially those with populations that have already peaked or will peak in the next decades, should
consider leveraging technology, including automation, to improve productivity at all ages. They should also
design more opportunities for lifelong learning and retraining, support multigenerational workforces and
create employment opportunities for older persons who want to continue to work.
• For countries with populations that are still growing rapidly, in addition to the policies listed above, foresight
will be required to prepare for a society with an age structure that will be very different from the one they have
today. This would include strengthening systems of health and long-term care, improving the sustainability of
social protection systems and investing in new technologies.
• Because women live longer than men on average, they outnumber men at older ages in almost all populations.
Policies should address women’s longer life expectancy by ensuring equitable access to retirement benefits,
prioritizing gender-specific health care needs, and strengthening social support systems to mitigate potential
caregiving burdens.
For some populations, immigration will be the main driver of future growth.
• In 50 countries and areas, immigration is projected to attenuate the decline in population size caused by
sustained low levels of fertility and an older age structure.
• For countries such as Italy, Germany and the Russian Federation, where population size has already peaked,
the peak would have occurred sooner in the absence of immigration.
• Immigration is projected to be the main driver of population growth in 52 countries and areas through 2054
and in 62 through 2100, including Australia, Canada and the United States of America.
• Emigration generally does not have a major impact on the population size of a country, but in 14 countries
and areas already experiencing ultra-low fertility, emigration is likely to be a major driver of population loss
between now and 2054.
• In countries where fertility levels are already below the replacement level, the emigration of people in the
reproductive age range can further depress population growth. In such countries, creating more opportunities
for decent work and promoting return migration could be more effective at slowing population decline in the
short run than policies aimed at raising fertility levels.
X United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 13 ---
Gender equality and women’s empowerment help to counter rapid population
growth or decline.
• Discrimination and legal barriers often prevent women and adolescents from making autonomous decisions
about their sexual and reproductive health, including by limiting access to family planning. Such conditions
tend to prevent or postpone the reduction of fertility in populations that are growing rapidly.
• Raising the minimum legal age at marriage and integrating family planning and safe motherhood measures
into primary health care can help to raise women’s levels of education, facilitate their economic participation
and reduce the incidence of early childbearing.
• In locations where the population has peaked already or is likely to peak in the next three decades, gender
gaps in the division of domestic work within households and inadequate child and family welfare support may
prevent or discourage women and couples from having larger families even when they want them.
• Governments wishing to help couples and individuals to achieve their desired family size may consider
a variety of policies aimed at balancing family and work life. These may include: providing paid parental
leave and flexible working arrangements; supporting affordable, high-quality childcare options and housing;
providing comprehensive care for an ageing population; and encouraging an equal distribution of caregiving
and household responsibilities between men and women.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division
XI

--- Page 14 ---
Manchester, Jamaica (2023). Shawn Wynter/World Bank.

--- Page 15 ---
Introduction
Population growth, population ageing, urbanization and international migration are four major demographic trends
shaping our world. Changes in the size, age structure and spatial distribution of populations bring both challenges
and opportunities. By managing the challenges and taking advantage of the opportunities, we can accelerate the
achievement of inclusive and sustainable development, create opportunities to eradicate poverty, enhance access
to social protection, health care and education, promote gender equality, advance more sustainable patterns of
production and consumption, and safeguard the environment.
Conversely, achieving the Goals and targets of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development can help avoid the
most extreme demographic outcomes, facilitating a shift towards smaller families in populations that are growing
rapidly and where individuals and couples often have more children than they desire, and enabling parents to have
larger families in populations that are declining and where people often fail to achieve their desired family size.
Understanding how population trends are likely to unfold in the short, medium and long terms is critical for achieving
a more inclusive, prosperous and sustainable future.
Future population trends are uncertain. Yet, compared to other trends such as transformation of the global economy
or technological advances, the speed and direction of population change, at least in the short and medium terms, is
far more predictable. This feature makes population trends an invaluable tool for policy design, including for policies
to deliver on the promise and aspirations of the 2030 Agenda and other intergovernmental agreements.
The present report comes at a time when the demographic landscape of many countries is changing rapidly, often
raising concerns and creating confusion. Due to faster-than-anticipated declines in fertility for some of the world’s
most populous countries, the size of the global population now appears likely, with a probability of 80 per cent,
to peak within the current century. This represents a major shift in perspective from one decade ago, when the
estimated probability that global population growth would end during the twenty-first century was around 30 per
cent.
The fact that the world’s population is likely to peak sooner and at a lower level than previously anticipated has
important implications for the sustainability of our current way of living on this planet. Some of these are described
in the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) held in 1994,
which recognizes that efforts to slow population growth, reduce poverty, achieve economic progress, improve
environmental protection and reduce unsustainable consumption and production patterns are mutually reinforcing.
The demographic outlook of countries today appears quite diverse. Some have high levels of fertility and are growing
rapidly, while others have historically low levels of fertility. Those that have experienced low levels of fertility for
several decades are seeing their populations age rapidly, with some now beginning to decline in size.
While these differences are striking, it is important to understand that all populations are following a similar path
towards longer lives and smaller families, a process known as the “demographic transition”. Much of today’s
demographic diversity stems from the fact that countries are at different stages in this process.
The period of unprecedented population growth, which began in the middle of the twentieth century on a global
scale, is a major consequence of the demographic transition, but this period is coming to an end for many countries
and, eventually, for the world as a whole. Another major consequence is a shift in the age structure towards older
ages, a process known as “population ageing”.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division
1

--- Page 16 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
The report adopts the analytical framework of the demographic transition, focusing on the timing at which populations
peak in size, to explore differences in population trends across countries and regions today and to provide insights
into their future trajectories. The report also offers a series of policy recommendations to help countries prepare for
population sizes, age structures and spatial distributions that may differ appreciably from those of their recent past.
World Population Prospects 2024 is the twenty-eighth edition of estimates and projections of the global population
published by the United Nations since 1951. It provides an authoritative and comprehensive collection of demographic
data that can be used for assessing population trends at the global, regional and national levels. Data from previous
editions have been used for the calculation of many development indicators, including for about one quarter of the
indicators used for the global monitoring of progress towards the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs).
For the first time, the current revision of the World Population Prospects2 presents probabilistic projections of future
trends in international migration. Earlier editions published in 2013 and 2015 introduced probabilistic projections of
future trends in fertility and mortality, respectively. In addition to providing a probabilistic assessment of projected
trends for all three components of population change (fertility, mortality and international migration), World Population
Prospects 2024 presents all data disaggregated by sex and single-year increments of age and time, as introduced
in the 2022 edition.
The report is organized in four chapters, each of which describes the most likely trends in population size, age
structure and other characteristics from 2024 to 2100. Each chapter also discusses the projected trends in fertility,
mortality and international migration, as well as the momentum created by past trends that is embedded in the
current age distribution.
Chapter I presents the global trends and introduces the concept of the population peak, whose timing is used
throughout the report to approximate the timing of the demographic transition for different locations. Chapter II
focuses on countries with populations that have already peaked in size. This group includes China, Germany, Japan
and the Russian Federation, among others. Chapter III examines population trends for countries with populations that
are projected to peak between 2025 and 2054. This group includes Brazil, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Türkiye and
Viet Nam. Chapter IV provides an overview of countries with populations that are likely to continue growing through
2054, potentially reaching a peak later in the century or beyond 2100. This group includes several of the world’s most
populous countries, such as India, Indonesia, Nigeria, Pakistan and the United States of America.
Each chapter includes key policy recommendations for countries in the group. Because the demographic transition
unfolds in a series of sequential stages, the policy recommendations for countries that have already peaked in size
are relevant also for those that are still growing, albeit with a potential time lag of several decades.
2 See https://population.un.org/wpp/
2 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 17 ---
Chapter I. Awareness of population trends is
critical for achieving a sustainable future
The world’s population is expected to continue growing over the coming 50 or 60 years, reaching a peak of around
10.3 billion people in the mid-2080s, up from 8.2 billion in 2024. After peaking, the global population is projected to
start declining gradually, returning to 10.2 billion people by the end of the century (figure 1.1). While there is some
uncertainty around the future size of the world’s population, the estimated likelihood that it will peak within the
current century is 80 per cent, with the peak likely to occur sometime between the mid-2060s and 2100 (box 1.1).
This represents an important change compared to projections produced by the United Nations a decade ago, when
the estimated probability that world population growth would end during the twenty-first century was around 30 per
cent (Gerland and others, 2014). The size of the world’s population in 2100 is now expected to be 6 per cent smaller –
or about 700 million people fewer – than anticipated a decade ago. This earlier occurrence of a peak in the projected
size of the global population is due to several factors including lower-than-expected levels of fertility observed in
recent years in some of the world’s largest countries, particularly China, and slightly faster-than-anticipated fertility
declines in some parts of sub-Saharan Africa.3
Figure 1.1
Global population, according to United Nations (World Population Prospects) in 2013 and 2024, 1995–2100
Sources: United Nations (2013; 2024a).
Notes: Estimates correspond to the period from 1995 to 2023 in United Nations (2024) and from 1995 to 2010 in United Nations (2013); projections correspond to the period
from 2024 to 2100 (with 95 per cent prediction intervals) in United Nations (2024) and from 2010 to 2100 in United Nations (2013). United Nations has been abbreviated as UN.
3 These include Kenya, Niger, Nigeria, Uganda and Zambia. Conversely, some countries, including Afghanistan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Pakistan and
Yemen, have experienced slower declines than previously expected.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division
3

--- Page 18 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
The fact that the peak in the global population is projected to occur earlier and at a lower level than previously
anticipated is important for several reasons. First, it signals the end of the era of rapid population growth, which
began around 1800 in some regions and in the middle of the twentieth century on a global scale (United Nations,
2021). Second, given that population growth tends to amplify4 environmental pressures by adding to total economic
demand, it has implications for progress towards a more sustainable future, since the aggregate demand for food,
housing, infrastructure and services, among others, will likely be smaller with the global population peaking earlier
and at a lower level.
Box 1.1
The challenge of estimating and forecasting population trends
The quality of population estimates and projections hinges on the availability of reliable and timely
demographic data. World Population Prospects 2024 takes into consideration the full range of available
demographic evidence, referencing data from 1,910 censuses and 3,189 sample surveys, as well as
information on births and deaths from civil registration and vital statistics systems for 169 countries (see
Annex 1). However, data availability, timeliness and coverage remain a challenge for many countries. These
gaps can impact the accuracy of population estimates and the reliability of projections, as reflected in the
differences in outcomes between revisions (figure 1.1). Improving the reliability, coverage, timeliness and
accessibility of demographic data should be a central focus of efforts to strengthen statistical systems for
monitoring progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals.
Future population trends are uncertain, especially in the long run. The increase of uncertainty over time is
reflected in the widening band of prediction intervals for projections at dates farther into the future (figure
1.1). One of the main sources of this uncertainty is the trend in the annual number of births.5 The projections
in World Population Prospects 2024 involve a series of assumptions relating to fertility. For countries where
large families are still prevalent, it is assumed that fertility will continue to decline. For countries where
women are having or are projected to have, on average, fewer than two live births over a lifetime6 and that
fulfill a series of other conditions, it is assumed that there will be a slight rebound in fertility levels in the
years ahead (see box 2.1; United Nations, 2024b). When applied to populous high-fertility countries such as
Nigeria or populous low-fertility countries such as China, these assumptions can influence global population
trends long into the future.
Despite the uncertainty around future population trends, compared to other trends such as economic growth
or technological advance, the pace and direction of population change is far more predictable, at least in
the short and medium terms. Leveraging the foresight that can be gained from a robust understanding of
current and future population trends is critical for accelerating progress towards achieving the SDGs and
for designing policies that require a longer time horizon, such as those related to macroeconomic planning,
social protection, national security and the environment.
4 While population growth may exacerbate environmental damage under some circumstances, a sustainable future for all hinges more on human behaviours than on human
numbers. For a more detailed discussion, see United Nations (2021).
5 Pandemics, wars, conflicts, natural disasters and economic shocks and crises can also impact population trends in ways that are difficult to predict.
6 Replacement-level fertility refers to the level of childbearing at which each generation exactly replaces the previous one in terms of size. If fertility remains below this level over
the long run, the population will eventually decline in size (assuming that immigration levels will be insufficient to compensate for the decline). For populations at late stages of the
demographic transition, the replacement level of fertility is approximated by a total fertility rate of 2.1 births per woman.
4 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 19 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Box 1.2
Why do populations reach a peak size?
The fact that contemporary populations tend to grow, reach a peak size and then plateau or decline is a
consequence of the demographic transition—the historic shift towards longer lives and smaller families
that has been a universal feature of social and economic development in the modern era. The transition
unfolds in a series of stages. In the early stage, the transition is characterized by accelerated population
growth driven by a drop in mortality rates, especially among infants and children, while fertility levels
remain high. In an intermediate stage, fertility begins to decline as well, but the population continues to
grow rapidly due to a large and sustained excess of births over deaths. As the transition moves into its final
stage, population growth decelerates as birth and death rates come back into balance at historically low
levels, until eventually the growth rate approaches zero or becomes negative. At that point, the transition
is complete. Once a population reaches its peak size, the population tends to stabilize with a growth rate
close to zero (figure 1.2, post-transitional solid trend line) or to decrease in size with a negative growth rate
(dashed trend line).
Figure 1.2
Schematic representation of the demographic transition
Source: Calculations by the United Nations.
Notes: The crude birth (or death) rate is the annual number of live births (or deaths) divided by the mid-year population size. Both rates are expressed as the number
of births or deaths per 1,000 population per year. The schematic representation of the demographic transition refers to a population that is closed to migration, in
which growth is due entirely to the gap between numbers of births and deaths.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 5

--- Page 20 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Today, countries are at very different stages of the demographic transition (box 1.2, map 1.1). In 63 countries and
areas, containing 28 per cent of the world’s population in 2024, the population peaked in size before or during 2024,
meaning that these locations are now in a post-transitional stage (figures 1.3, 1.4). This group, referred to throughout
this report as countries with populations that peaked by 2024 or that already peaked, includes China, Germany,
Japan and the Russian Federation.7
Map 1.1
Countries and areas by timing of the observed or projected population peak
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Disclaimer: The boundaries and names shown and the designations used on this map do not imply official endorsement or acceptance by the United Nations. Dotted line represents
approximately the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir agreed upon by India and Pakistan. The final status of Jammu and Kashmir has not yet been agreed upon by the parties.
Final boundary between the Republic of Sudan and the Republic of South Sudan has not yet been determined. A dispute exists between the Governments of Argentina and the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland concerning sovereignty over the Falkland Islands (Malvinas).
7 All figures and illustrative examples in the report are among countries and areas with at least 90,000 inhabitants in 2024.
6 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 21 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Figure 1.3
Number of countries and areas by period of the peak in population size, by region, estimates, 1950–2023, and
projections (medium scenario), 2024–2100
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Notes: Each circle refers to a country or area. In 76 locations the size of the populations may potentially peak in or after 2100. The regional grouping that comprises Australia and
New Zealand has been abbreviated as Aus./N.Z.
In 48 countries and areas, representing 10 per cent of the world’s population in 2024, the size of the population is
projected to peak between 2025 and 2054. This group, which is in the late stage of the demographic transition and
is referred to here as peaking between 2025 and 2054, includes Brazil, the Islamic Republic of Iran and Viet Nam.
In the remaining 126 countries and areas, the population is likely to continue growing through 2054, potentially
reaching a peak later in the century or beyond 2100. Many countries in this group are in the intermediate stage of
the transition, when fertility levels have started to decline but remain above the replacement level. These populations
continue to grow due also to a youthful age structure that is conducive to population growth. This group, referred
to as countries growing through 2054, includes several of the world’s most populous countries, including India,
Indonesia and Nigeria. It also includes countries such as Australia, Canada and the United States of America, which
would likely peak much sooner without immigration (see chap IV). With more than half of the world’s population, the
trajectory of population change for this group will have a major influence on the size and timing of the population
peak at the global level.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 7

--- Page 22 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Figure 1.4
Total population in absolute numbers (top) and relative to peak size (bottom), estimates, 1995–2023, and
projections (medium scenario), 2024–2100, globally and for countries and areas in three groups by timing of
the peak
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Notes: For total population in absolute numbers (top), prediction intervals are represented as shaded areas around the projected trend. For a given year, the future trend is expected
to lie within the predicted range with an estimated probability of 95 per cent. For total population relative to the maximum (bottom), estimates and projections have been indexed
to their maximum value.
8 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 23 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
National populations grow or decline in size as a function of the balance between three demographic components:
fertility, mortality and international migration8 (figure 1.5). In addition, the age structure of a population, resulting
from trends in these three variables in the past, can be a major driver of population change. This fourth component
is referred to as population momentum. Each of these components, depending on their direction and size, can
contribute to population change in different ways. They can add to each other, compounding population growth or
decline, or they can counterbalance each other, cancelling out each other’s effects (figure 1.5).
Figure 1.5
Relative contributions of the components of population change to future population size, globally and for
countries and areas in three groups by timing of the peak, projections (medium scenario), 2024–2054 and
2024–2100 (percentage)
Source: Calculations using data from United Nations (2024a), based on a comparison of different projection scenarios.9
Notes: The figure refers to population growth in the period specified, in percentage, by component. For further details on the use of different projection scenarios to decompose
the projected change in future population size into the four components of change, see Definition of Projection Scenarios and section II.F of the methodological report (United
Nations, 2024b).
The fertility level, or the average number of live births per woman over a lifetime, has fallen markedly over recent
decades in many countries. Currently, the global fertility rate stands at 2.25 live births per woman, one child fewer
than a generation ago (figure 1.6). By the late 2040s, the global fertility rate is projected to decline to 2.1. Since
fertility will be close to the replacement level worldwide throughout this period, it will make little or no contribution
to growth at the global level between now and 2054 (figure 1.5, “World”).10
Among the three groups of countries, fertility is expected to affect population trends in different ways. For countries
and areas with populations that have already peaked, low levels of fertility are one of the major drivers of the
continuing population decline. In most of these, the average number of births per woman has, for many decades,
been below the level required for zero growth (see chap II). Fertility levels are also already at or below the replacement
8 The impact of international migration on population change is only at the national or regional level. At the global level, the direct effect of international migration on population
growth is nil.
9 See Definition of Projection Scenarios and section II.F of the methodological report (United Nations, 2024b) for further details on the use of different projection scenarios to
decompose the projected change in future population size into the four demographic components of change.
10 Fertility has a positive impact on population change when it is above the replacement level and a negative one when it is below (Andreev, Kantorová and Bongaarts, 2013;
United Nations, 2024b).
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 9

--- Page 24 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
level in nearly all the countries with populations that are likely to peak in the next three decades (see chap III). In the
group of countries with populations that are likely to continue growing through 2054, fertility levels are quite variable. Figure 1.7
In around one fifth of these countries and areas, nearly all in sub-Saharan Africa, women had on average 4 or more Global life expectancy at birth (as observed) and counterfactual scenario without COVID-19 excess mortality,
births in 2024. In these countries, high levels of fertility are among the main drivers of rapid population growth, 2015–2023
adding to the challenges of achieving social and economic development and magnifying the scale of the investments
and effort required to ensure that no one is left behind (see chap IV). In all three groups of countries, advances in
gender equality and women’s empowerment can help to create societies where all couples and individuals are able
to achieve their desired family size, in line with principle 8 of the ICPD Programme of Action,11 potentially helping to
counter the rapid growth or decline of populations.
Figure 1.6
Total fertility and life expectancy at birth, globally and for countries and areas in three groups by timing of the
peak in population size, estimates for 1995 and projections (medium scenario), 2024, 2054 and 2100
Source: United Nations (2024a) including metadata on mortality crises (see Annex 1).
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Note: The dashed orange vertical line indicates the level of replacement fertility.
Globally, life expectancy at birth reached 73.3 years in 2024, an increase of more than 8.4 years since 1995 (figure
1.6). Further reductions in mortality are projected to result in an average longevity of around 77.4 years globally in
2054. By the late 2050s, more than half of all deaths globally will occur at age 80 or higher, compared to 17 per cent
in 1995. The substantial lengthening of the average human lifespan, which is due to improvements in public health,
nutrition, personal hygiene and medicine, represents one of the great triumphs of social and economic development.
This rise in life expectancy at birth halted during 2020 and 2021 due to the impact of the coronavirus disease
(COVID-19) pandemic. Since 2022, life expectancy has returned to levels observed before the emergence of COVID-19
in nearly all countries and areas. At the height of the pandemic (during 2020 and 2021), global life expectancy at birth
fell to 70.9 years, down from 72.6 in 2019 (figure 1.7).
11 Principle 8 of the ICPD Programme of Action states that “Everyone has the right to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health. States
should take all appropriate measures to ensure, on a basis of equality of men and women, universal access to health-care services, including those related to reproductive health
care, which includes family planning and sexual health. Reproductive health-care programmes should provide the widest range of services without any form of coercion. All
couples and individuals have the basic right to decide freely and responsibly the number and spacing of their children and 0to have the information, education and means to do
so”.
10 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 25 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
level in nearly all the countries with populations that are likely to peak in the next three decades (see chap III). In the
group of countries with populations that are likely to continue growing through 2054, fertility levels are quite variable. Figure 1.7
In around one fifth of these countries and areas, nearly all in sub-Saharan Africa, women had on average 4 or more Global life expectancy at birth (as observed) and counterfactual scenario without COVID-19 excess mortality,
births in 2024. In these countries, high levels of fertility are among the main drivers of rapid population growth, 2015–2023
adding to the challenges of achieving social and economic development and magnifying the scale of the investments
and effort required to ensure that no one is left behind (see chap IV). In all three groups of countries, advances in
gender equality and women’s empowerment can help to create societies where all couples and individuals are able
to achieve their desired family size, in line with principle 8 of the ICPD Programme of Action,11 potentially helping to
counter the rapid growth or decline of populations.
Source: United Nations (2024a) including metadata on mortality crises (see Annex 1).
In 2023, the number of deaths among children under age 5 fell below 5 million for the first time in recent history.
However, high levels of child mortality persist in many regions even though such deaths are largely preventable.
Nearly all deaths of children under age 5 (95 per cent of the total) take place in 126 countries with populations that
are still growing, including the Democratic Republic of the Congo, India, Nigeria and Pakistan (see chap IV).
At the global level, 19 per cent of the total population increase through 2054 is likely to be attributable to gains in
survival made possible by the reduction of mortality rates.12 Increasing levels of life expectancy at birth will contribute
to population growth or help to mitigate population decline in nearly all locations over the coming decades. For
Globally, life expectancy at birth reached 73.3 years in 2024, an increase of more than 8.4 years since 1995 (figure countries with populations that are projected to peak between 2025 and 2054, improvements in life expectancy are
1.6). Further reductions in mortality are projected to result in an average longevity of around 77.4 years globally in expected to contribute 72 per cent of the population growth anticipated through 2054. For countries with populations
2054. By the late 2050s, more than half of all deaths globally will occur at age 80 or higher, compared to 17 per cent that have already peaked, reductions in mortality are likely to slow population decline by 5 per cent during the same
in 1995. The substantial lengthening of the average human lifespan, which is due to improvements in public health, period.
nutrition, personal hygiene and medicine, represents one of the great triumphs of social and economic development.
International migration tends to have a limited effect on population change in most countries.13 In a small number
This rise in life expectancy at birth halted during 2020 and 2021 due to the impact of the coronavirus disease of countries and areas, immigration is projected to attenuate the decline in population size caused by sustained low
(COVID-19) pandemic. Since 2022, life expectancy has returned to levels observed before the emergence of COVID-19 levels of fertility and an older age structure. Immigration is projected to be the main driver of population growth in
in nearly all countries and areas. At the height of the pandemic (during 2020 and 2021), global life expectancy at birth 52 countries and areas through 2054 and in 62 through 2100. This group includes Australia, Canada, Qatar, Saudi
fell to 70.9 years, down from 72.6 in 2019 (figure 1.7). Arabia and the United States of America. Emigration generally does not have a major impact on the population size
of countries, but in 14 countries and areas, all with “ultra-low” fertility (fewer than 1.4 live births per woman over a
lifetime), emigration is likely to be an additional factor reducing population size between now and 2054 (see chap II).
11 Principle 8 of the ICPD Programme of Action states that “Everyone has the right to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health. States
should take all appropriate measures to ensure, on a basis of equality of men and women, universal access to health-care services, including those related to reproductive health
care, which includes family planning and sexual health. Reproductive health-care programmes should provide the widest range of services without any form of coercion. All 12 The contribution of mortality to population growth is positive if mortality is declining and negative if mortality is increasing (Andreev, Kantorová and Bongaarts, 2013).
couples and individuals have the basic right to decide freely and responsibly the number and spacing of their children and 0to have the information, education and means to do 13 Net migration refers to the net number of migrants, that is, the number of immigrants minus the number of emigrants. When net migration is positive it provides a positive
so”. contribution to population change. When it is negative, it has the opposite effect.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 11

--- Page 26 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
At the global level, the main driver of global population increase through mid-century will be the momentum created
by growth in the past.14 The population growth of recent decades is reflected in today’s youthful age structure, which
is projected to contribute 79 per cent of the total increase in the global population through 2054, equal to around
1.4 billion people.
The number of women of reproductive age (roughly, between 15 and 49 years) is an important indicator of the
potential for future population growth. Globally, the number of women in the reproductive age range is projected
to grow through the late 2050s, when it will likely peak at around 2.2 billion, up from nearly 2.0 billion in 2024. A
growing number of women of reproductive age is conducive to continuing population increase. Even if global fertility
were to drop immediately to the replacement level, the momentum generated by past growth, which is reflected in
the youthful age distribution of the current population, ensures that the population would continue to grow for a few
decades.
In populations where fertility levels have been low for several decades, the number of women in the reproductive
age range tends to decrease. In some situations, the negative momentum generated by a history of low fertility has
resulted in an age distribution that is significantly older than in the past. The older age distribution is likely to be the
main driver of population decline in 18 countries and areas between now and 2054. Even assuming a substantial
rebound in fertility levels, these populations are likely to continue declining in size for several decades because of
this momentum.
By the late 2070s, the number of persons at ages 65 years and higher globally is projected to reach 2.2 billion,
surpassing the number of children (under age 18), while the number of persons aged 80 or older is projected
to surpass the number of infants (1 year of age or less) already by the mid-2030s, when it is projected to reach
265 million. For the groups of countries and areas where the size of the population has already peaked or is projected
to peak in the coming decades, the crossover between the number of children and the number of persons aged 65
or older will occur by the late 2020s.
These profound changes in age structure are a direct consequence of the demographic transition towards longer
lives and smaller families. Specifically, in countries that are in the early stage of this transition, the number of persons
at younger ages increases rapidly. Once fertility levels start to fall, in the intermediate stage, the number at younger
ages grows more slowly or stops growing. Therefore, the number of persons in the working age range starts to
increase relative to that of younger ages, while the number of older persons remains small. In the later stages of the
demographic transition, when most people survive to advanced ages, the number of persons at older ages starts to
increase. For populations whose fertility drops to very low levels in the post-transitional stage, the age distribution
begins to resemble an inverted pyramid with more persons at older ages than children and youth. Many countries
that have already peaked in size are beginning to assume this pattern
14 To determine the direct impact of a population’s age structure on change in population size, it is assumed that net migration equals zero, fertility is at the replacement level
and mortality is constant (United Nations, 2017).
12 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 27 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Figure 1.8
Population by age group, globally and for countries and areas in three groups by timing of the peak, estimates,
1995–2023, and projections (medium scenario), 2024–2100
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Note: The scale of the y axis differs between groups.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 13

--- Page 28 ---
Learning computer skills, Chongqing, China (2013). Li Wenyong/World Bank.

--- Page 29 ---
Chapter II. Countries and areas with populations
that have already peaked
Over the past decades, there has been growing anxiety about population ageing and decline. For an increasing number
of countries and areas, fertility has remained at very low levels for several decades; as a result, the populations have
already reached their peak size. In the 1980s, only 14 countries, nearly all in Europe or Northern America, had peaked
in size (figure 1.3). Today, that number stands at 63, spanning a wide geographical area that includes Eastern and
South-Eastern Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean, and Oceania (excluding Australia and New Zealand), in addition
to Europe and Northern America. This group includes some of the world’s most populous nations, such as China,
Germany, Japan and the Russian Federation.
Figure 2.1
Total population relative to peak size, for countries and areas with populations that have already peaked,
regional average and selected countries, by region, estimates, 1995–2023, and projections (medium scenario),
2024–2100
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Note: Grey lines represent countries or areas with at least 90,000 inhabitants in 2024.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division
15

--- Page 30 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
According to the United Nations’ medium projection scenario, the number of people living in these locations is
projected to decline by 14 per cent over the next 30 years. Eighteen of the countries and areas in this group are likely
to see the size of their populations decline by 20 per cent or more in the next three decades, with Albania, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Lithuania and the Republic of Moldova recording some of the largest relative reductions (figure 2.1).
Rapid population decline in some contexts may pose a challenge, requiring innovative policy responses to address
potential macroeconomic, labour market, social protection and national security issues.
It is anticipated that China, the country currently with the world’s second largest population, will likely experience the
largest absolute population loss between 2024 and 2054 (204 million), followed by Japan and the Russian Federation
(21 and 10 million, respectively) (figure 2.2). Long-range population projections are less certain. Nevertheless, due
to its large size and sustained low level of fertility, China is also likely to record the largest population decline of any
country through the end of the century (786 million people). By 2100, China is projected to have lost more than half
of its current population and to have returned to a population size comparable to that recorded in the late 1950s (see
box 2.1).
Figure 2.2
Total population for selected countries and areas with populations that have already peaked, estimates,
1995–2023, and projections (medium scenario) with prediction intervals, 2024–2100
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Notes: Prediction intervals are represented as shaded areas around a projected trend. For a given year, the future trend is expected to lie within the predicted range with an estimated
probability of 95 per cent. The scale of the y axis differs between locations.
16 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 31 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Not all countries in this group are likely to experience a pronounced population decline through the end of the century.
In ten of these countries and areas, the population is likely to experience only a limited decline or to plateau over the
coming decades. Among the countries that are expected to remain in close range of their present population size
until 2054 are Georgia in Western Asia; Germany, Portugal, the Russian Federation and Spain in Europe; and Uruguay
in Latin America. Based on the specific circumstances and priorities of each country, population stabilization or
limited decline may bring additional opportunities to eradicate poverty, expand access to health care and education,
promote gender equality, improve social protection systems, move towards more sustainable patterns of production
and consumption, and enact measures to protect the environment and mitigate the negative effects of climate
change (see chap IV).
As mentioned in chap I, below-replacement fertility and an older age structure are the main reasons that the
populations of many countries in this group are projected to decline. However, there are considerable differences
between countries in terms of the relative contribution of each of the components (figure 2.3).
Figure 2.3
Relative contributions of the components of population change, countries and areas with populations that
have already peaked, group average and selected countries, by component, projections (medium scenario),
2024–2100 (percentage)
Source: Calculations using data from United Nations (2024a), based on a comparison of different projection scenarios.
Note: Grey lines represent countries or areas with at least 90,000 inhabitants in 2024.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 17

--- Page 32 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
For nearly all of the countries and areas in this group, fertility is already below replacement. Within the group, levels
of fertility are lowest for countries in Eastern and South-Eastern Asia, with an average of 1.0 births per woman,
and highest in Oceania (excluding Australia and New Zealand), with 2.3 births per woman (figure 2.4). “Ultra-low”
fertility levels, meaning fewer than 1.4 births per woman on average, are currently seen in 24 countries, or 38 per
cent of all countries and areas in this group, including China and the Republic of Korea in Eastern Asia and Italy and
Spain in Europe. Among the countries and areas with populations that have already peaked, Hong Kong Special
Administrative region (SAR) of China and the Republic of Korea had the lowest levels of fertility in 2024, with an
average below 0.75 births per woman.
Figure 2.4
Total fertility and life expectancy at birth, countries and areas with populations that have already peaked, by
region, estimates for 1995 and projections (medium scenario), 2024, 2054 and 2100
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Notes: Countries and areas are ordered by the level of fertility in 1995 within regions. The dashed orange vertical line indicates the level of replacement fertility.
Levels of fertility in these locations are likely to remain relatively stable in the future, with only limited fertility rebounds
anticipated until the end of the century (figure 2.4, box 2.1). The return to a level of at least 2.1 births per woman
within the next 30 years is highly unlikely in the group of 24 countries with ultra-low fertility, with an estimated
probability ranging from 0.1 per cent or less for China and the Republic of Korea to 1.5 per cent for Jamaica.
18 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 33 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Box 2.1
Assumptions underlying the “rebound” in future fertility for low-fertility countries
Long-range population projections are highly uncertain, due in large part to uncertainty around the number
of children that will be born. For countries with fertility below the replacement level, projecting future fertility
levels can be particularly challenging, since there is only limited historical precedent that can be used to
inform projections.
For the group of countries and areas with populations that have already peaked as a whole, the medium
scenario of World Population Prospects 2024 assumes that between 2024 and 2100 the level of fertility
will gradually increase to 1.4 births per woman (with 95 per cent uncertainty ranging from 1.2 to
1.8 births per woman in 2100) (figure 2.5). This assumption is informed by trends from 39 countries that
have experienced declines in total fertility below 2 children per woman, followed by a subsequent rebound
over at least two consecutive periods of five years (see United Nations, 2024b). The “rebound” in future
fertility for low-fertility countries is consistent with an expectation of continued progress towards gender
equality and women’s empowerment and improving social and economic opportunities for young people
and families (box 2.2).
The effect of this assumption can be observed by comparing the medium scenario with the constant-
fertility scenario, where total fertility of each country is set to remain constant at the level of 2023. For
the group of countries with populations that have already peaked, the level of fertility by 2100 would
be a quarter of a child less under the constant fertility scenario than under the medium scenario (figure
2.5). Assumptions about future fertility and resulting population change have important implications for the
sustainable development of countries. Different fertility assumptions can help explain some of differences
in the population projections produced by leading demographic research institutions (see box 4.1).
Figure 2.5
Total fertility and population, countries and areas with populations that have already peaked, estimates,
1995–2023, projections (medium scenario) with prediction intervals and scenario with constant fertility
(dash-dotted line), 2024–2100
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Notes: Prediction intervals are represented as shaded areas around a projected trend. For a given year, the future trend is expected to lie within the predicted range
with an estimated probability of 95 per cent.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 19

--- Page 34 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Among countries where population size has already peaked, the ultra-low fertility levels of countries in Eastern and
South-Eastern Asia are likely to contribute to faster population declines in the foreseeable future, compared to other
countries in this group. These projected trajectories of future fertility are based on the medium projection scenario
of the United Nations, which assumes that, with time, individuals and couples will have more social and economic
opportunities that will enable them to realize their childbearing intentions in low-fertility countries (see box 2.1).
In many of the countries and areas with ultra-low fertility, gender gaps in the division of domestic work within
households, challenges in balancing work and family, care responsibilities for ageing parents and inadequate child
and family welfare support can prevent or discourage women and couples from having larger families even when
they want them.The total annual number of births in this group is projected to decline rapidly, falling from around
15 million in 2024 to 11 million in 2054. In 2024, 11 per cent of all babies worldwide were born in this group of
countries and areas. In the future, the share of newborns in this group is likely to decline to 8.8 per cent by 2054 and
6.7 per cent by 2100. Because only a limited rebound in the level of fertility and continued decline in the number of
women of reproductive age are projected for this group of countries and areas, the likely range for future numbers
of births is relatively small especially when compared to that of other groups, such that the size of the birth cohort in
2054 will lie between 8.2 and 14.6 million with an estimated probability of 95 per cent.
The sex ratio at birth, defined as the number of boys born for every girl, is 1.08 among countries that have already
peaked in size. This ratio is high compared to both the global average in 2024 (1.05 boys per girl) and the biological
norm (between 1.02 and 1.06), indicating a gender-bias skewed towards males (WHO, 2011). The sex ratio at birth
is particularly high for the countries in this group in Eastern and South-Eastern Asia (1.1 boys per girl in 2024) and
in Oceania (excluding Australia and New Zealand) (1.09 boys per girl). Countries such as the Republic of Korea
have been successful in rebalancing sex ratios at birth through programmes aimed at changing cultural norms
surrounding son preference (Chung and Gupta, 2007). Addressing gender-based sex selection, which is closely
linked to the achievement of SDG 5 on gender equality, might also contribute to increasing the number of births under
some circumstances in these societies.15
The declining number of births in this group is partly explained by the shrinking number of women of reproductive
age in these locations, which generates negative population momentum. In countries with populations that have
already peaked, the number of women in the reproductive age range is projected to fall by 33 per cent between 2024
and 2054. By the late 2030s, half of the women in countries with populations that have already peaked will be too
old to have children by natural means. By the early 2070s, as many as 61 per cent of the women in this group could
be aged 50 or older. Hong Kong, SAR of China and Puerto Rico are likely to have the highest share of women aged
50 or older at that time, with values of 80 per cent and 72 per cent, respectively.
In 18 countries and areas that have already peaked in size, the negative population momentum generated by an
older age distribution is likely to be the main driver of population decline through 2054. Because the number of
women in the reproductive age range is projected to decline rapidly in such countries, the number of children born
would decrease even if fertility were to return to replacement level. The impact on population size of policies aimed
at raising fertility levels is, therefore, likely to diminish over time. Such trends have wide-ranging implications for
reproduction, family planning and policy formulation (box 2.2). Even assuming a substantial rebound in the fertility
level, these populations are likely to continue declining in size because of the momentum of past decline.
Continuing progress in reducing mortality, the only demographic component projected to contribute positively to
population change in this group (figure 2.3), has resulted in increasing life expectancy at birth. Across this group of
countries and areas, life expectancy increased from 70.9 years in 1995 to 78.8 years in 2024. In 2024, Hong Kong,
SAR of China, Japan and the Republic of Korea had the highest levels of life expectancy at birth (at least 84 years) in
the group and in the world. Other countries with high life expectancy at birth are Italy, Portugal and Spain in Europe,
and Guadeloupe and Martinique in the Caribbean. In contrast, life expectancy at birth is the lowest in Jamaica and
Saint-Vincent and the Grenadines in Latin America and the Caribbean, and in the Republic of Moldova in Europe, with
levels below 72 years. These differences are projected to narrow, but not disappear, in the coming decades.
15 Addressing sex selection would mean that the number of girls born would increase. Once those girls move into adulthood, they might choose to become mothers.
20 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 35 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Box 2.2
Policies to support families and help couples and individuals to achieve their desired family size
Today, two thirds of the global population live in a country or area where average fertility is below
2.1 births per woman. In several low-fertility countries, women have, on average, fewer children than they
had expected, and more often than intended, they remain childless (Beaujouan and Berghammer, 2019).
Individuals and couples face multiple obstacles to achieving their desired family size, including demands of
higher education, high costs of childcare, challenges to work-family balance, unequal division of household
tasks between partners, care responsibilities for ageing parents and biological limits to the reproductive
lifespan.
Addressing these constraints will help to ensure that all individuals have the opportunity and means to
achieve the family size that they desire. Following the principles set out in the 1994 ICPD Programme of
Action and implementing policies based on inclusive, rights-based and gender-sensitive approaches is
more likely to deliver a sustainable response to low levels of fertility than policies focused on aggregate-
level demographic outcomes, which could have harmful effects on the sexual and reproductive health of
couples and individuals and accentuate gender inequality (Gietel-Basten and others, 2022).
Many countries have implemented or tested a range of family-friendly and gender-responsive policies
that could contribute to stabilising or reversing low fertility rates. While their impact is contingent on many
contextual and societal factors, Governments wishing to help couples and individuals to achieve their
desired family size may consider a variety of policies aimed at balancing family and work life. These may
include: providing paid parental leave and flexible working arrangements; supporting affordable, high-quality
childcare options and housing; providing comprehensive care for an ageing population; and encouraging
an equal distribution of caregiving and household responsibilities between men and women (Bergsvik and
others, 2021; Sobotka and others, 2019).
Making reproductive technologies such as in-vitro fertilization (IVF) more affordable and widely accessible is
another policy response that might be considered, given the postponement of childbearing and the evidence
that human fertility declines with age (Pino and others, 2020; Te Velde and Pearson, 2002). While each
country’s approach varies based on its unique cultural, economic and social context, the central principle
remains consistent: supporting families and maintaining a holistic and inclusive approach to sexual and
reproductive health and rights is key to addressing some of the reasons why individuals and couples might
be hesitant to have children in a modern society.
For countries and areas that have already peaked in size, gains in life expectancy are projected to contribute positively
to population growth in the coming decades, with the effect likely to increase throughout the century (figure 2.3).
Still, reductions in mortality will compensate for only one third of the negative effect of fertility and therefore will not
be enough to counter the negative effect on population change.
In 2024, life expectancy at birth for women in this group of countries exceeded that for men by 6.4 years, with female
and male life expectancies standing at 82.0 and 75.6, respectively. Due to differences linked to gender-associated
behavioral factors, as well as biological differences, women outlive men in all countries of the group. It is important
to consider gender differences in life expectancy when formulating policies to ensure equitable access to retirement
benefits, address gender-specific health-care needs, and strengthen social support systems to mitigate potential
caregiving burdens (United Nations, 2023a). Future increases in life expectancy at birth are projected to be higher for
males than females at similar levels of life expectancy at birth, and as a result the gap between the two will narrow.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 21

--- Page 36 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Changes in fertility and mortality not only impact a population’s size, but also its age structure. For the group of
countries with populations that have already peaked, the share of people at younger ages (under age 20) is expected
to decline from 21 per cent in 2024 to 14 per cent in 2054 and remain at that level until the end of the century
(figure 1.8). Inversely, the share of persons aged 65 or older is likely to grow rapidly, nearly doubling between 2024
and 2054 from 17 per cent to 33 per cent. By 2100, older persons are likely to comprise around 40 per cent of the
total population of the group of countries that have already peaked in size (for the group as a whole, the share of
persons aged 65 or older will lie between 33 and 49 per cent in 2100 with an estimated probability of 95 per cent).
Box 2.3
Different approaches to measuring population ageing
Population ageing is a global phenomenon driven by the decline in fertility rates and the continuing
improvement in survival to older ages. Understanding and measuring population ageing is crucial to plan
and adopt policies and to develop and take appropriate actions to effectively address its implications.
Various measures of population ageing are available. All aim to reflect changes in the distribution of individual
characteristics (such as chronological age, health status or functioning capacities) within a population
(Skirbekk and others, 2019). A first typology of indicators assesses population ageing from the point of view
of changes in the age structure of a population. The proportion of persons above a given age – typically aged
65 or older – or the median age of a population has been traditionally used to measure shifts in population
age structure. Further indicators, such as the ratio of the older population to the working-age population
(typically defined as the population between the age of 20 and 64), are also used. This first set of indicators
are simple to compute and easily comparable across time and space, and are the ones referenced in this
report.
Alternative approaches measure population ageing by considering the expected time until death (i.e., the
prospective old-age dependency ratio) or the ratio of the effective number of consumers aged 65 years or
older to the effective number of workers at all ages (i.e., the economic old-age dependency ratio) (United
Nations, 2019). These indicators were developed to account better for the characteristics and behaviours
of the older population, including that not all people stop working at age 65. However, they require more
detailed data that are not always available and involve greater computational complexity.
Finally, a last series of indicators, including the disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) or the healthy life
expectancy (HALE) at birth, try to capture the diversity and heterogeneity of the older population, including
differences in their health, functional ability and socioeconomic status. These approaches focus mostly on
assessing specific characteristics of older persons and their application is often limited by data availability.
Under the medium projection scenario, the share of older persons will continue to increase in the countries and
areas with populations that have already peaked. In 2054, older persons could comprise one third or more of the
population in 16 of these locations, with Hong Kong, SAR of China, and the Republic of Korea recording some of the
highest values. The number of persons aged 65 or older in countries and areas with populations that have already
peaked is projected to reach 409 million by 2027, surpassing the number of children under age 18. The number of
persons aged 80 or older in the same group is increasing even faster and is likely to triple, rising from 85 million in
2024 to around 267 million by 2100 (the size of the population aged 80 or older in 2100 will lie between 203 and
358 million with an estimated probability of 95 per cent). In 2024, the number of persons aged 80 or older in this
group of countries is already larger than the number of infants (1 year of age or less).
22 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 37 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
As populations in this group of countries and areas continue to age, long-term planning is needed, including to
strengthen systems of health care and long-term care, improve the sustainability of social protection systems and
invest in new technologies. Countries with populations that have already peaked in size and are ageing rapidly (box
2.3) should consider leveraging technology, including automation, to improve productivity at all ages. They should
also strengthen efforts to provide lifelong learning and retraining, support multigenerational workforces and create
employment opportunities for older persons who want to continue to work.
For nearly all countries and areas with populations that have already peaked in size, the time-bound window of
opportunity for accelerated economic growth associated with a youthful population and declining fertility has already
closed (see box 3.1). However, even in countries where the share of population at the working ages (between 20
and 64 years) is shrinking, there are ways to foster an increase in per capita economic growth. One strategy is to
become more inclusive, by bringing into the formal labour market groups that have been traditionally excluded, such
as women, older persons and persons with disabilities. Another approach is boosting worker productivity by investing
in human capital formation and lifelong training and leveraging the use of technology, including robotics, automation
and artificial intelligence (AI) (United Nations, 2023a). Immigration can also help alleviate labour force shortages
associated with population ageing, at least in the short term. Enhancing the availability and flexibility of pathways
for safe and orderly migration not only protects the human rights of migrants, but also benefits communities at the
place of origin, along transit routes and in the final destination.
Compared to fertility and mortality, international migration generally does not have a major impact on the population
size of countries in this group (figure 2.3), although for some countries, net immigration helps counter population
decline. The population of some 19 countries in this group, including Germany, Japan, Italy, the Russian Federation
and Thailand would have peaked earlier and at a lower level in the absence of immigration. International migration
alone, however, cannot offset population decline or population ageing in the long term and should not be seen as a
“solution” to what is ultimately a universal and irreversible process: the demographic transition.
In countries where fertility levels are already below replacement, the emigration of people in the reproductive age
range can contribute to further population decline. In 62 per cent of the countries and areas of the group already
experiencing low levels of fertility, emigration is likely to contribute to reducing further population size between
now and 2054. International migration also indirectly impacts the number of births in countries of destination and
in countries of origin (figure 2.6). In countries and areas such as Albania, Armenia, Guadeloupe and Jamaica, the
emigration of large numbers of women of reproductive age can reduce the number of births taking place in those
locations, while in countries such as Portugal, the Russian Federation and Spain immigration has the opposite
effect. From a demographic perspective, the births “lost to emigration” or “gained through immigration” have both
short-term and long-term consequences, since the girls born today are the women of reproductive age of the next
generation. In countries with high rates of emigration, creating more opportunities for decent work and promoting
return migration may be approaches to explore and could be more effective at slowing population decline in the short
term than policies aimed at raising fertility levels.
It seems unlikely that countries with populations that have already peaked by 2024 will renew their population
growth between now and 2100. Even if fertility were to return instantly to the replacement level and stay there for
several decades, the population of the group would start to decline after 2040 and would become stable (with a
growth rate around zero) only in the long term due to the negative momentum embedded in the age structure of the
current population, which will continue to influence the demographic trajectories of these countries and areas for
decades to come. Thus, under the instant replacement scenario, the total population at the end of the century for the
group of countries whose populations have already peaked would remain below its present level.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 23

--- Page 38 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Figure 2.6
Projected number of births lost due to emigration (negative values) and gained through immigration (positive
values) as percentage of total births in the medium scenario, countries and areas with populations that have
already peaked, 2024–2054
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Notes: The percentage of births lost and gained are computed as the relative difference between the total births in the medium scenario and the total births in the zero net migration
scenario. Countries and areas are listed by percentage of births in ascending order.
24 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 39 ---
Chapter III. Countries and areas with populations
likely to peak within 30 years
Between 2025 and 2054, the populations of 48 countries and areas are projected to reach their peak size. Brazil,
the Islamic Republic of Iran, Türkiye and Viet Nam are among the most populous members of this group. While the
populations that have already peaked are predominantly in Europe, the largest number among those likely to peak
within 30 years are found in Latin America and the Caribbean—19 countries and areas, or 40 per cent of the total.
The countries and areas in this group are in the later stages of the demographic transition, when fertility falls below
the replacement level and growth slows as the population approaches its peak size. They face many of the same
challenges and opportunities as those with populations that have already peaked (see chap II) and those with
populations likely to grow through 2054 (see chap IV). Over the next three decades, members of this group will need
to balance the immediate demands of a population that is younger and still growing with the emerging demands of
a population that is older and no longer growing.
Figure 3.1
Total population indexed to peak size, for countries and areas with populations likely to peak within 30 years,
regional average and selected countries, by region, estimates, 1995–2023, and projections (medium scenario),
2024–2100
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Note: Grey lines represent countries or areas with at least 90,000 inhabitants in 2024.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division
25

--- Page 40 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
The size of the population in these locations is projected to increase by 5.3 per cent over the next 30 years, with
Bhutan, Colombia, Cyprus, the Islamic Republic of Iran and Ireland among the countries recording the largest relative
increases by 2054. According to the United Nations’ medium projection scenario, the group’s population will reach
a peak of 875 million by the late 2040s (with 95 per cent probability that the peak will occur between 2038 and
2059), up from 825 million in 2024, and then start to decline. By 2100, it is projected to have fallen to 690 million
(with 95 per cent probability that the size of the population of the group will lie between 583 million and 834 million),
roughly returning to the size it had in 2004. By that date, the group will likely be home to 6.8 per cent of the world’s
population, down from 10 per cent in 2024. At the end of the century, all but two countries and areas in the group –
Ireland and Switzerland – are projected to have a smaller population than they have today (figure 3.1).
After reaching their peak size between 2025 and 2054, countries in this group are likely to follow somewhat different
trajectories. Nineteen of them are likely to see their population decline by 20 per cent or more by the end of the
century. The population of Brazil, the largest country in the group and the seventh-largest country globally in 2024,
is likely to peak in the early 2040s at around 220 million people (figure 3.2). After that, the population of Brazil is
projected to start to decline, falling to 163 million by 2100. At the end of the century, Brazil’s population is projected
to be 26 per cent smaller than at its peak and 23 per cent smaller than in 2024 (with 92 per cent probability that the
size of the population will have declined by 2100). Because of this decline, and the rapid population growth of other
countries, Brazil is likely to see its position in the ranking of the world’s most populous countries drop by 2100 (figure
4.4). Other countries with populations that are likely to decline rapidly after reaching their peak size between 2025
and 2054 are the Islamic Republic of Iran in Central Asia, Singapore in Eastern Asia, Argentina, Chile and Colombia in
Latin America, and Türkiye in Western Asia. For other countries in the group, the decline is likely to be more gradual.
Figure 3.2
Total population for selected countries with populations likely to peak within 30 years, estimates, 1995–2023,
and projections (medium scenario) with prediction intervals, 2024–2100
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Notes: Prediction intervals are represented as shaded areas around a projected trend. For a given year, the future trend is expected to lie within the predicted range with an estimated
probability of 95 per cent. The scale of the y axis differs between locations.
26 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 41 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Based on the United Nations’ medium scenario, Belgium, Denmark, Netherlands, Norway and Switzerland have a
50 per cent chance that their population will plateau, remaining within a close range of their peak population size. The
policies implemented by countries with populations that have already peaked may be of great interest to countries
that are likely to peak in size in the next 30 years (see chap II). Leveraging the understanding of how such trends are
likely to unfold in the short and longer terms is critical to plan for a more inclusive, prosperous and sustainable future,
both in the context of rapid population decline and in the context of relative population stabilization.
The relative contribution of fertility, mortality and international migration to population change in these locations is
likely to resemble that of countries with populations that have already peaked, with fertility contributing negatively
to population change, mortality positively and international migration having a limited impact (see chap II). However,
because of the momentum of past growth, this group of countries and areas is characterized by an age structure
that is more conducive to population growth (figure 1.8). In 25 such countries and areas, including Brazil, the Islamic
Republic of Iran and Viet Nam, momentum is projected to be the main driver of population growth in the next
decades. Over time, the relative contribution of momentum to population growth in these locations is likely to decline,
and by the 2090s gains in mortality will overtake momentum as the main driver of positive population change.
However, based on the medium projection scenario of the United Nations it is unlikely that the combined effect of
these components will be enough to counterbalance the negative effect of the projected decline in fertility through
the end of the century (with 1 per cent probability) that will drive population decline in this group after its peak.
Figure 3.3
Relative contributions of components of population change, countries and areas with populations likely to
peak within 30 years, group average and selected countries, by component, projections (medium scenario),
2024–2100 (percentage)
Source: Calculations using data from United Nations (2024a), based on a comparison of different projection scenarios.
Note: Grey lines represent countries or areas with at least 90,000 inhabitants in 2024.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 27

--- Page 42 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Fertility levels are already at or below replacement in nearly all the countries of the group. However, in three countries
or areas (Fiji, Réunion and Seychelles), fertility may play a very small, positive role on population change until the late
2030s. Sixteen countries in the group have an ultra-low level of fertility, defined as an average of less than 1.4 births
per woman (figure 3.4). Macao Special Administrative region (SAR) of China and Singapore, both in Eastern Asia, had
the lowest levels of fertility in the group in 2024, at 0.68 and 0.95 births per woman, respectively.
Figure 3.4
Total fertility and life expectancy at birth, countries and areas with populations likely to peak in
30 years, by region, estimates for 1995 and projections (medium scenario), 2024, 2054 and 2100
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Note: Countries and areas are ordered by the level of fertility in 1995 within regions. The dashed orange vertical line indicates the level of replacement fertility.
Based on the medium projection scenario, by 2054 the average number of births per woman will range between
0.94 and 1.90 for countries in this group. A slight rebound in fertility levels is assumed by the end of the century, but
even with that, total fertility is likely to remain well below 2 children per woman in all countries in the group, with
values ranging between 1.15 and 1.78 births per woman at the end of the century. These levels are not high enough
to guarantee the replacement of the population. The estimated likelihood that countries and areas in this group with
ultra-low fertility today return to 2.1 births per woman in 30 years is low, ranging from 0.0 per cent for Macao, SAR
of China to 2.2 per cent for Saint-Lucia.
Progress in reducing mortality is likely to contribute positively to population change in all countries in the group
(figures 3.3, 3.4). At the group level, average life expectancy at birth reached 76.5 years in 2024, with one third of
countries, including Macao, SAR of China and Singapore in Eastern Asia, and Denmark, Finland, Netherlands, Norway
and Switzerland in Europe having levels of life expectancy above 82 years (figure 3.4). Due to continuing progress in
28 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 43 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
preventing premature mortality among children and adults, life expectancy in this group of 48 countries is projected
to increase to more than 87.2 years by the end of the century.
In all countries in this group, women live longer than men, with female life expectancy exceeding male life expectancy
by more than 2.8 years in 2024. By 2100, this gap is likely to narrow slightly, with male and female life expectancy at
birth reaching 85.6 and 88.9 years, respectively. Since women live longer than men, promoting income-generating
opportunities and financial literacy among women, including at older ages, and strengthening their productive
capacities throughout the life course can play a crucial role in improving their autonomy, health and well-being and
in enhancing dignity at older ages, with positive effects on overall productivity and economic growth for societies at
large.
One of the effects of people enjoying longer lives is that there are fewer people dying at younger ages. By the mid-
2040s, over half of all deaths in the countries in this group will be among persons aged 80 or older (figure 3.5).
In comparison, less than one third of all deaths occurred at ages 80 and higher in 1995. These important gains
in human survival will likely increase the demand for health care and long-term care and raise the cost of public
pensions (United Nations, 2023a).
Figure 3.5
Percentage of deaths at age 80 or above for countries and areas in three groups by timing of the peak in
population size, estimates, 1995–2023, and projections (medium scenario), 2024–2100
Source: United Nations (2024a).
International migration is projected to play a negligible role in shaping population change at the aggregate level of
the group (figure 3.3). In 19 countries, however, net migration is likely to positively impact population change through
2054. Added to the positive contribution of reductions in mortality, migration will help counteract the negative effect
on population growth of below replacement level fertility in some countries. For countries such as Denmark, Finland,
Iceland, Ireland, Netherlands, Norway and Switzerland, migration is one of the reasons why their population is
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 29

--- Page 44 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
projected to continue to grow over the coming decades. Without positive net immigration, the population of these
countries would have peaked earlier. In many countries of the group, migration, in addition to the timing and level of
their population peaks, is also likely to influence their age structure. Because immigrants tend to be concentrated in
the young adult age ranges (roughly, between 20 and 39 years) they tend to boost the number and proportion of the
working-age group in host countries.
Compared to countries and areas with populations that have peaked already, most of those with populations that are
likely to peak in the next 30 years are characterized by an age structure that is more conducive to population growth,
with a relatively larger share of the population at working ages. In many of these countries and areas, the decline
in fertility occurred later and the share of people at younger ages has not yet been counterbalanced by an increase
in those at older ages. As a result, the share of population in the working ages in this group has continued to grow
while in countries and areas with populations that have peaked already the share has been declining. The growth in
the share of the population at working ages can provide an opportunity for accelerated economic growth and social
development known as the demographic dividend (box 3.1).
Box 3.1
The demographic dividend as a window of opportunity to accelerate sustainable development
In most societies, children and older persons consume on average more than they produce.16 A rapid and
sustained reduction in the fertility level results in a population age distribution in which the most highly
productive years are temporarily overrepresented relative to the combined shares of people at younger
and older ages (Lee and Mason, 2006). The enlarged share of potential workers leads automatically to an
increase in income per capita, assuming that output per worker and levels of engagement in the labour
force remain unchanged (Mason and Lee, 2018).
The dividend is usually described as a window of opportunity for countries with relatively youthful populations
to accelerate their economic and social development by redirecting resources freed up by having fewer
children, at both the societal and familial levels, towards improving educational and health outcomes and
raising standards of living (Bloom and others, 2003). While the demographic circumstances underlying the
dividend are conducive to rapid economic growth on a per capita basis, reaping the maximum potential
benefit requires sufficient improvements in education, health, gender equality and gainful employment.
For most countries with populations that are likely to peak over the next 30 years, the share of persons of working ages
was already declining in 2024. However, for one quarter of the countries and areas in this group, the demographic
window of opportunity remains open (figure 3.6). These include Bhutan in Southern Asia, Myanmar in South-Eastern
Asia, Argentina, Colombia and El Salvador in Latin America, and Fiji in Oceania. These countries and areas have
between 10 and 20 years to realize their demographic dividend. Many of them, however, will need to urgently
increase investments in education, health care, employment and social protection on a per capita basis to fully
take advantage of this time-bound opportunity for accelerated economic growth (see also chap IV). By 2054, the
share of population at working ages is likely to have declined compared to 2024 in all but 6 of the 48 countries of
the group and the window associated with a youthful population and declining fertility will have closed. At the end
of the century, all countries with populations that are likely to peak by 2054 will have lower shares of working age
population than in 2024.
16 The following discussion draws on United Nations (2021).
30 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 45 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Figure 3.6
Relative difference between population growth rates in working ages and in total population, countries with
populations likely to peak in 30 years, selected countries, estimates, 1995–2023 and projections (medium
scenario), 2024–2100
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Notes: For analytical purposes, it is assumed that the working age range extends from 20 to 64 years. The difference between the growth rate of the population of working age
and the growth rate of the total population equals the theoretical contribution of changes in the age distribution to the growth of GDP per capita. Such changes can be positive or
negative. The shaded areas in the graph represent the dividend, and the vertical dash line indicates the year 2024.
High levels of emigration from some of the countries and areas in the group are expected to contribute to reducing
the size of their working-age population, potentially undermining their opportunity to benefit from a demographic
dividend. For example, in French Polynesia and El Salvador, two of the locations in the group with the highest
emigration rates, the working age population in 2054 would have been more than 11 per cent higher without
international migration. For the countries experiencing high levels of emigration, minimizing the adverse drivers and
structural factors that compel people to leave their country of origin and promoting return migration could bolster the
size of their working-age population and prolong their demographic window of opportunity.17 This, however, would
be contingent on progress in creating conditions for people to fulfil their personal aspirations and lead peaceful,
productive and sustainable lives in their own country.
In locations where the size of the population is projected to peak in the next 30 years, a crossover between the
number of children under age 18 and the number of persons aged 65 or older is likely to occur by the mid-2040s.
The number of persons aged 65 or older in this group is likely to double over the next 30 years, reaching 203 million
in 2054 and representing 23 per cent of the total population. Between 2054 and 2100, the number of persons aged
65 or older is expected to grow by an additional 13 per cent. The share of persons at older ages will increase by
42 per cent and reach one third of the total population in 2100. It is likely that more than one third of the population
in 26 countries and areas in this group will be aged 65 or older by 2100. These will include Brazil, Chile and Colombia
in Latin America, Tunisia and Türkiye in Northern Africa and Western Asia, and Singapore in South-Eastern Asia.
Faced with a future of rapidly growing numbers and proportions of older persons, countries and areas in this group
may consider measures to strengthen their systems of health care and long-term care, promote lifelong learning,
expand employment opportunities for older persons who want to continue to work, address age-based prejudice
nd discrimination, invest in and explore new industries that cater to this growing population group, and improve the
sustainability and equity of social protection systems (United Nations, 2023a).
17 In countries of origin, the earnings that migrants send home as cash or goods can reduce poverty and improve the educational and health outcomes of members of their
families and communities. International migrants also make positive contributions to sustainable development in communities of destination (United Nations, 2024c).
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 31

--- Page 46 ---
Residents in the northern mountain region of Viet Nam (2024). Simone D. McCourtie/World Bank.

--- Page 47 ---
Chapter IV. Countries and areas with populations
likely to grow through 2054
For decades, there has been widespread concern about the impact of rapid population growth on the planet. Today,
the global population is still increasing, albeit at a decelerating pace. Still, the populations of 126 countries and
areas are likely to continue growing through 2054, potentially reaching their peak size later in the century or beyond
2100.18 This group includes some of the world’s most populous countries, such as India, Indonesia, Nigeria, Pakistan
and the United States of America.
Figure 4.1
Total population indexed to peak size, countries and areas with populations likely to grow through 2054,
regional average and selected countries, by region, estimates, 1995–2023, and projections (medium scenario),
2024–2100
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Note: Grey lines represent countries and areas with at least 90,000 inhabitants in 2024.
18 Populations may potentially peak in or after 2100 in 76 of these countries and areas.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division
33

--- Page 48 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Box 4.1
Are global population projections getting closer?
Long-term global population projections are crucial for planning and policymaking, but they can vary
significantly due to differences in methodologies, assumptions, data sources and when they were produced.
Three leading institutions currently produce global population projections: (a) the United Nations (World
Population Prospects), (b) the Wittgenstein Center for Demography and Human Capital (WIC), and (c) the
Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME).
All three sets of global projections use the cohort component method to project future population by age
and sex. Under the cohort component method, the population by age and sex in a given year is projected
forward by applying mortality, fertility and migration patterns that differ by age and sex. These rates are
obtained by the application of different models and/or methods that are based on distinct assumptions. The
methodology used by the United Nations is described in a separate report (United Nations, 2024b).
At the global level, the different sets of population projections agree until about 2050, and
thereafter they diverge progressively (figure 4.2). In their most recent assessments (WPP 2024
and WIC 2023), the projections of the global population by the United Nations and by WIC have
become closer and depict a very similar future trajectory until the end of the century when
the world could count 10.2 billion (ranging from 9.0 billion to 11.4 billion, with a probability of
95 per cent) (UN 2024) or 9.9 billion (WIC 2023) respectively. In contrast, IHME (2020) projects a future
global population of 8.8 billion (ranging from 6.8 billion to 11.8 billion, with a probability of 95 per cent) in
2100 – a figure 1.4 billion, or almost 14 per cent, lower than that produced by the United Nations.
Figure 4.2
Global population projections, according to the United Nations, the Wittgenstein Center for Demography
and Human Capital (WIC), and the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME)
Source: United Nations (2022a; 2024a); Wittgenstein Centre for Demography and Global Human Capital (WIC) (2018, 2023); Institute for Health Metrics and
Evaluation (IHME) (2020).
The approach taken by the United Nations to project future fertility trends is based on historical and present
fertility levels and trends. These projected fertility trajectories implicitly consider past progress made in
development, education and contraceptive use, among others. By contrast, the models of fertility projections
developed by IHME and WIC are based on assumptions made on women’s future educational attainment
and, in the case of IHME, on the satisfied demand for contraception as well.
The medium scenario of the United Nations assumes that continued progress towards gender equity and
women’s empowerment will mean that as time progresses, individuals will be better able to realize their
childbearing intentions (see boxes 2.1, 2.2).
34 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 49 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Countries and areas in this group are at different stages of the demographic transition (see box 1.1). Around three
quarters are in the intermediate stages, when fertility levels remain above the replacement level. These include
46 countries and areas in sub-Saharan Africa, 15 in Northern Africa and Western Asia, 11 in Latin America and
the Caribbean, 11 in Oceania (excluding Australia and New Zealand), 8 in Central and Southern Asia, 5 in Eastern
and South-Eastern Asia and 2 in Europe and Northern America. The other one quarter in the later stages of the
demographic transition, with fertility already below the replacement level in 2024. These include 16 countries and
areas—mostly in Europe, Northern America, Australia and New Zealand, but also some in Northern Africa and Western
Asia, where immigration is projected to be the principal driver of population growth through 2054.
According to the medium scenario, the total population of countries and areas likely to grow through 2054 will
increase by 38 per cent, rising from 5.1 billion in 2024 to 7.0 billion in 2054 (with a probability of 95 per cent that
the population size in 2054 will lie between 6.7 and 7.3 billion). After 2054, the growth of this group is expected
to decelerate, leading to a further increase of 19 per cent through the end of the century. By 2100, the group is
projected to be home to 8.3 billion people (ranging from 7.4 to 9.7 billion with a probability of 95 per cent), a
cumulative increase of 64 per cent compared to 2024.
Because the total population of this group will continue growing, while the rest of the world is projected to decline, by
2100 it will contain 82 per cent of the global population, up from 62 per cent in 2024. The trajectories of population
change among countries and areas in this group will have a major influence on the size and timing of the population
peak at the global level (see box 4.1).
Figure 4.3
Total population for selected countries with populations likely to grow through 2054, estimates, 1995–2023,
and projections (medium scenario) with prediction intervals, 2024–2100
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Notes: Prediction intervals are represented as shaded areas around a projected trend. For a given year, the future trend is expected to lie within the predicted range with an estimated
probability of 95 per cent. The scale of the y axis differs between locations.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 35

--- Page 50 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Countries and areas with populations that are likely to continue growing through 2054 are likely to follow very
different growth trajectories (figures 4.1, 4.3). Over the next 30 years, the total population of those located in sub-
Saharan Africa is projected to see an increase of 79 per cent, reaching 2.2 billion in 2054 (ranging from 2.1 billion to
2.4 billion, with a probability of 95 per cent), followed by an additional increase of 51 per cent, reaching 3.3 billion at
the end of the century (ranging from 2.7 billion to 4.5 billion, with a probability of 95 per cent).
The populations of nine locations, including Angola, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Democratic Republic of
Congo, Mali, Mayotte, Niger, Somalia and the United Republic of Tanzania, are likely to at least double in size between
2024 and 2054. More than one fifth of the projected increase in the global population between 2024 and 2054 is
expected to be concentrated in these nine countries. Due to this rapid growth, the ranking of the most populous
countries in the world will likely change, with Pakistan and eventually Nigeria and the Democratic Republic of the
Congo overtaking the United States of America in terms of population size, and the United Republic of Tanzania likely
joining the list of the ten largest countries by the end of the century (figures 4.3, 4.4).
Figure 4.4
Rankings of the world’s ten most populous countries and total population (in parentheses), 2024, 2054 and
2100 (in millions)
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Note: A blue arrow indicates that a country has the same rank in the two given years, a yellow arrow indicates that a country has increased in rank and a green arrow indicates that
a country’s ranking has fallen.
Many countries and areas with rapidly growing populations already face severe economic, social and environmental
impediments. Rapid growth is likely to pose a serious challenge to their sustainable development, increasing the scale
of investments and efforts required to eradicate poverty, end hunger and malnutrition, and ensure universal access
to health care, education and other essential services (United Nations, 2021, 2023b, 2023c). Stepping up access to
family planning services, including for a wide range of effective contraceptive methods, may help individuals and
couples who aspire to have smaller families to achieve their desired family size (United Nations, 2022a).
36 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 51 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Other countries and areas of this group are likely to experience slower population growth. Twenty-eight of these
are already in the later stages of the demographic transition, when growth starts to slow as population size nears
its peak. Countries such as France, Sweden and the United Kingdom in Europe are likely to continue to increase
in population size through the second half of the century, albeit at a relatively slow pace, with their populations
stabilizing at around the size of their peak (figures 4.1, 4.3). Other countries where growth is likely to stabilize after
reaching peak population size are Cambodia in South-Eastern Asia; Plurinational State of Bolivia, Haiti and Honduras
in Latin America and the Caribbean; and Algeria in Northern Africa.
In a small number of mostly high-income countries, including Australia, Canada, Oman, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and the United States of America, the population is projected to grow by over 20 per cent between 2024
and 2100 largely as a result of immigration.
In addition, the population of 10 countries in this group, mostly in Eastern and South-Eastern Asia and in Latin
America and the Caribbean, is projected to decline by 10 per cent or more by 2100 after peaking in size. The
population of India, which is expected to remain the world’s largest throughout the century, will likely decline by
12 per cent after reaching its peak in the early 2060s at about 1.7 billion (figure 4.3). Other countries in this group
that are projected to see the size of their populations shrink during the second half of the twenty-first century include
Bangladesh, Indonesia, Morocco, Peru and the Philippines.
One of the pressing considerations for this group is how to minimize future environmental impacts while meeting
the needs of growing populations. Environmental damage often arises from economic processes that lead to higher
standards of living, and population growth amplifies such environmental pressures by adding to total economic
demand. Most of the countries and areas facing rapid population growth over the next decades are classified today
as “low-income economies”. Although until now they have been responsible for only a small share of the global
consumption of material resources and emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs), they will need to increase their
energy consumption substantially if they are to develop economically and achieve the Goals and targets of the 2030
Agenda (United Nations, 2021).
Promoting sustained economic growth in such locations without further damaging the environment will require
support from the international community. The high- and middle-income countries that have contributed most to
unsustainable patterns of resource use bear the greatest responsibility for moving rapidly to achieve net-zero GHG
emissions and for implementing strategies to decouple human economic activity from environmental degradation,
regardless of whether their populations are currently growing or declining. Because of the multiplicative effect of
population on GHG emissions, however, the need to decouple economic activity from the current overreliance on
fossil-fuel energy is especially urgent where populations are projected to continue growing through the end of the
century.
For countries with populations that are likely to continue growing through 2054, all three demographic components
– fertility, mortality and international migration – as well as population momentum, make a positive contribution to
population growth (figure 4.5). Across the group, the potential for growth that is embedded in the age structure will
have the largest influence on the future population growth, contributing 69 per cent of growth through 2054 and
53 per cent through 2100. There is a wide variability within the group in terms of the relative contribution of each
of the components. Fertility is likely to have a strong influence in most of the sub-Saharan African countries in the
group, while net migration is likely be the main driver of future population growth in many of the members of the
Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC), as well as in many countries in Europe, Northern America,
and Australia and New Zealand.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 37

--- Page 52 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Figure 4.5
Relative contributions of components of population change, countries and areas with populations likely to
grow through 2054, group average and selected countries, by component, projections (medium scenario),
2024–2100 (percentage)
Source: Calculations using data from United Nations (2024a), based on a comparison of different projection scenarios.
Note: Grey lines represent countries and areas with at least 90,000 inhabitants in 2024.
In 2024, the average number of births per woman across the group of countries with populations that are likely
to continue growing through 2054 was 2.72. Three quarters of the countries in the group had fertility at or above
replacement level and in one fifth – all in sub-Saharan Africa except for Afghanistan – women had on average 4 or
more births in 2024. The high fertility levels in these locations will continue to drive strong population growth for the
rest of the century. In contrast, 28 countries, or 22 per cent of the countries in this group, already had fertility levels
below replacement in 2024. Among them, three countries – Canada, Luxembourg and the United Arab Emirates –
had ultra-low levels of fertility (below 1.4 births per woman).
Over the next 30 years, fertility is expected to continue to decline in the group (figure 4.6). By the late 2060s, the
average level of fertility for these locations is projected to fall below replacement level, further declining to 1.89 by
2100 (ranging from 1.77 birth per woman to 2.47 birth per woman, with a probability of 95 per cent). Although there
is a high degree of uncertainty surrounding future levels of fertility, according to the medium projection, no country
in the group will have fertility levels above 3.7 births per woman by 2054, or above 2.3 births per woman by 2100.
38 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 53 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Figure 4.6
Total fertility and life expectancy at birth, countries and areas with populations likely to grow through 2054, by
region, estimates for 1995 and projections (medium scenario), 2024, 2054 and 2100
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Note: Countries and areas are ordered by level of fertility in 1995 within regions. The dashed orange vertical line indicates the level of replacement fertility.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 39

--- Page 54 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
In most high-fertility countries in this group, early childbearing is prevalent. This has been identified as an important
issue to address as reflected by the inclusion of the adolescent birth rate among one of the indicators to monitor
SDG target 3.7 on ensuring universal access to sexual and reproductive health-care services, including for family
planning, information and education. In 2024, 4.7 million babies globally, or about 3.5 per cent of the total live births
worldwide, were born to mothers under age 18. Of these, some 340,000 were to girls under age 15, with serious
adverse consequences for the health and well-being of both the young mothers and their children. In low-income
countries, the number of births to mothers under age 18 is 21 times as high as in high-income countries. Investing
in the education of young people, especially girls, and increasing the ages at marriage and first childbearing in
countries where these milestone events tend to occur early will have positive effects on women’s health, educational
attainment and labour force participation.
Increasing the age at first childbearing contributes also to slowing population growth, reducing the scale of the
investments and effort required to achieve sustainable development while ensuring that no one is left behind. If there
were no births to girls under age 18, the population of countries in sub-Saharan Africa in 2054 would be 3.8 per cent
smaller than it would have been otherwise. Under this scenario, the size of the population of the countries in sub-
Saharan Africa would be smaller by 85 million by 2054 and by 292 million by 2100 (figure 4.7).
Figure 4.7
Total population of sub-Saharan Africa, estimates, 1995–2023, projections (medium scenario) with predication
intervals and scenario without fertility below age 18 (dash-dotted line), 2024–2100
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Note: Prediction intervals are represented as shaded areas around a projected trend. For a given year, the future trend is expected to lie within the predicted range with an estimated
probability of 95 per cent.
Reductions in mortality are also anticipated to contribute to future population growth in this group of countries and
areas, though to a smaller extent than fertility. Increasing levels of life expectancy at birth are likely to contribute to
population increase in all countries in the group over the coming decades. Among countries with populations that
are projected to continue growing through 2054, life expectancy at birth is lowest in sub-Saharan African countries
(62.3 years) and highest in Europe and Northern America, Australia and New Zealand (80.7 years). This group
comprises some of the countries with the lowest levels of life expectancy at birth in the world as well as some of the
highest. Countries with the lowest levels of life expectancy in 2024, many of which are in sub-Saharan Africa, are
40 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 55 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
projected to experience large gains over the course of the century. Despite these gains, by 2100, life expectancy for
these locations in sub-Saharan Africa is still expected to lag 6.3 years behind the average of the group.
For many locations in this group, particularly those in sub-Saharan Africa and in Central and Southern Asia, the
increase in longevity projected over the next three decades is contingent on substantial reductions in mortality
during childhood. In 2023, the global number of deaths among children under age 5 fell below 5 million for the first
time in recent history. However, 95 per cent of such deaths took place in the 126 countries with populations that
are still growing, including the Democratic Republic of the Congo, India, Nigeria and Pakistan. While many of these
locations have witnessed important reductions in both the number and mortality rates among children under age
5, 57 countries in this group, including Chad, Niger, Nigeria, Somalia and South Sudan, are likely to fall short of the
target of reducing under-5 mortality to at least as low as 25 deaths per 1,000 live births by 2030 (SDG target 3.2)
(figure 4.8). Dedicating more resources to critical, low-cost treatments and interventions, such as ensuring access
to antenatal and postnatal care, skilled birth attendants, vaccinations and nutritional supplements, is imperative and
would save millions of lives worldwide over the next decade.
Ola During Children’s Hospital in Freetown, Sierra Leone (2016). Dominic Chavez/World Bank.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 41

--- Page 56 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Figure 4.8
Under-5 mortality rate, countries and areas with populations likely to grow through 2054, by region, estimates
for 1995 and projections (medium scenario), 2024, 2054 and 2100
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Notes: The under-5 mortality rate represents the probability of dying between birth and exact age 5. Results shown for countries with a rate of 25 deaths under age 5 per 1,000
live births or higher in 2024. Countries are ordered by level of under-5 mortality rate in 1995 within regions. The dashed green vertical line indicates a rate of 25. Oceania refers
to the region excluding Australia and New Zealand.
42 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 57 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
The contribution of international migration to population change varies across the countries and areas in this group.
In most of the countries where the average fertility level is high, emigration is likely to have a limited impact in
offsetting population growth. Conversely, for many of the countries in the group with relatively low levels of fertility,
immigration is projected to be the main driver of future population growth. These countries include Australia, Canada,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and the United States of America. In the absence of migration, the
population of these locations would likely peak much earlier and at a lower level (figure 4.9). In the United States of
America, for example, the population in 2054 and in 2100 would be, respectively, 13 per cent and 36 per cent smaller
without the contribution of immigration. Without immigration, the population of the United States of America would
likely peak already in the mid-2030s instead of continuing to grow until the end of the century, and its peak would
occur at a level 17 per cent lower.
Figure 4.9
Total population for selected countries with populations likely to grow through 2054, estimates, 1995–2023,
projections (medium scenario) with prediction intervals, and zero net migration scenario (dash-dotted line),
2024–2100
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Note: Prediction intervals are represented as shaded areas around a projected trend. For a given year, the future trend is expected to lie within the predicted range with an estimated
probability of 95 per cent. The scale of the y axis differs between locations.
In the countries of the group with high levels of fertility, rapid growth in the past, combined with present and future
fertility will result in large cohorts of children and young people in the decades to come, adding to the challenges
of ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being for all at all ages (SDG 3) and ensuring inclusive and equitable
quality education and promoting lifelong learning opportunities for all (SDG 4) (box 4.2).
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 43

--- Page 58 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Over the coming decades, the global population of youth (generally between 15 and 24 years), which stood at
1.3 billion in 2024, is projected to continue to grow slowly, reaching a peak of 1.4 billion in the early 2030s. However,
owing to pronounced differences in population trends across countries, much of this growth is likely to take place in
the group of countries with populations that are still growing rapidly, particularly those in sub-Saharan Africa. As a
result, an increasing share of young people worldwide will be concentrated in these locations, many of which already
confront substantial barriers to sustainable development and lag critically behind in per capita investments in health,
education and job creation.
Box 4.2
Empowering youth and the relevance of population trends for the Summit of the Future
The Summit of the Future is a high-level event taking place in September 2024 that will bring together world
leaders to forge a new international consensus on how to deliver a better present and safeguard the future.
One of its key components is the youth pillar, which emphasizes the crucial role of young people in driving
innovation, progress and positive change. As recognized in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,
leaving a better future for generations to come depends greatly on the full participation of youth in the
processes of social, economic and political development. However, inequalities among youth and between
generations can critically undermine the capacity of young people to achieve their full potential and play
that distinct role, with differences in early life conditions having lasting effects throughout the life course.
The rapid increase in the number of young people can place an additional strain on governments to ensure
access to quality education, health care and decent job opportunities for youth. A significant increase in
public expenditures will be required just to maintain current levels of per capita funding for such programmes
in many of the countries with populations that are projected to grow rapidly over the coming decades. The
returns on investing in young people’s human capital, however, are manifold, generating virtuous cycles that
can lift individuals, families and societies out of poverty, reduce inequality and help build more resilient and
peaceful societies.
Another priority is to mainstream gender equality into youth policies. Continued investments in education
and training opportunities for girls and young women are needed everywhere. In 2022, the proportion of
youth not in education, employment or training (SDG 8.6.1) was higher for young women than for young
men in 73 countries with available data. Strengthening sexual and reproductive health services for young
women can prevent unintended pregnancies, saving lives and improving health outcomes. Advancing
generational change for gender equality by empowering youth, and female youth in particular, and increasing
their agency, will have multiplier effects across the SDGs and safeguard the needs and interests of future
generations worldwide.
In around 75 per cent of the countries and areas in this group, the share of population in the working ages (between
20 and 64 years) will continue to increase more rapidly than the total population over the next 30 years, providing
a window of opportunity for accelerated economic growth on a per capita basis (figure 1.8, box 3.1). In 2024,
countries in this group still had, on average, 30 years to capture the benefits of a changing population age structure
to accelerate economic growth. The countries in sub-Saharan Africa had the largest window of time still available to
take advantage of their youthful age structures (figure 4.10). In these locations, substantial investments in education,
health care and infrastructure, as well as reforms to promote the creation of decent jobs and more transparent and
efficient government institutions, are needed to ensure that this time-bound opportunity is not wasted.
44 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 59 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Figure 4.10
Relative difference between population growth rates in working ages and in total population, countries and
areas with populations likely to grow through 2054, by region, estimates, 1995–2023 and projections (medium
scenario), 2024–2100
Source: United Nations (2024a).
Notes: For analytical purposes, it is assumed that the working age range extends from 20 to 64 years. The difference between the growth rate of the population of working age
and the growth rate of the total population equals the theoretical contribution of changes in the age distribution to the growth of GDP per capita. Such changes can be positive or
negative. The shaded areas in the graph represent the dividend, and the vertical dash line indicates the year 2024.
Because the countries in the group are at different stages in the demographic transition, some of them are also
more advanced in the process of population ageing. In Canada, France and Sweden, for example, more than 20 per
cent of the population was already aged 65 or older in 2024. Even in the countries where high rates of immigration
counterbalance the low levels of fertility, such as Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, the share of
older persons will more than triple by the end of the century (box 2.3). By 2054, population ageing will be advanced
in all countries in the group that have low levels of fertility.
The countries of the group with high fertility will also experience a continuing increase in the number and share
of older persons in their populations. Nigeria, for example, the country with the largest population in sub-Saharan
Africa, is projected to see its share of persons aged 65 or older climb from 5 per cent of the total population in
2054 to 12 per cent in 2100. At that date, the number of persons aged 65 or older in Nigeria is projected to reach
58.6 million, compared to 7.1 million in 2024. The increase in the proportion and number of persons at ages 65 and
higher among countries with populations that are likely to continue growing through 2054 highlights the need to
develop and strengthen health care and social protection systems and support national policies to create equitable,
fair and inclusive societies for people of all ages (United Nations, 2023a).19 Many of the countries in this group,
which at present have youthful populations, will need to prepare for a society with an age structure that will be very
different. This will require long-term planning and foresight, with appreciation for the time that will be required to
establish such systems in countries where they do not yet exist.
19 These efforts should build on the Madrid International Plan of Action on Ageing.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 45

--- Page 60 ---
Daily life in Barranco, Lima, Peru (2013). Dominic Chavez/World Bank.

--- Page 61 ---
References
Andreev, K., V. Kantorová and J. Bongaarts (2013). Demographic components of future population
growth. Technical Paper, No. 2013/3. New York: United Nations. Available at: https://www.un.org/en/
development/desa/population/publications/pdf/technical/TP2013-3.pdf.
Azose, J., and A. E. Raftery (2015). Bayesian probabilistic projection of international migration. Demography,
vol. 52, No. 5, pp. 1627–1650. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1007/s13524-015-0415-0.
Azose J., H. Ševčíková and A. E. Raftery (2016). Probabilistic population projections with migration
uncertainty. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, vol. 113, No. 23, pp. 6460–6465.
Available at: https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1606119113.
Bergsvik, J., A. Fauske and R. K. Hart (2021). Can policies stall the fertility fall? A systematic review of the
(quasi‐) experimental literature. Population and Development Review, vol. 47, No. 4, pp. 913–964.
Available at: https://doi.org/10.1111/padr.12431.
Bloom, D. E. D., and others (2003). The Demographic Dividend: A new perspective on the economic
consequences of population change. RAND Population Matters Program, No. MR1274. Santa Monica.
Available at: https://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monograph_reports/2007/MR1274.
pdf.
Chao, F., and others (2023). Estimating age-specific fertility rate in the World Population Prospects: a
Bayesian modelling approach. Technical Paper, No. UN DESA/POP/2023/TP/No. 6. New York: United
Nations. Available at: https://www.un.org/development/desa/pd/sites/www.un.org.development.
desa.pd/files/undesa_pd_2023_technical-paper_asfr.pdf.
Chung, W., and M. D., Gupta (2007). Why is son preference declining in South Korea? The Role of Development
and Public Policy, and the Implications for China and India. Policy Research Working Paper, No. 4373.
Washington D.C.: World Bank.
Gerland, P., and others (2014). World population stabilization unlikely this century. Science, vol. 346, No.
6206, pp. 234–237. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1257469.
Gietel-Basten S., A. Rotkirch and T. Sobotka (2022). Changing the perspective on low birth rates: Why
simplistic solutions won’t work. BMJ, 379, e072670. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj-2022-
072670.
Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) (2020). Global Fertility, Mortality, Migration, and Population
Forecasts 2017–2100, IHME. Available at: https://doi.org/10.6069/MJND-3671.
Lee, R., and A. Mason (2006). What is the demographic dividend? Finance and Development, vol. 43, No. 3.
Available at: www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/fandd/2006/09/basics.htm. Accessed on 11 June 2024.
Mason, A., and R. Lee (2018). Intergenerational transfers and the older population. In Future Directions
for the Demography of Aging: Proceedings of a workshop, M. D. Hayward, and M. K. Majmundar, eds.
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. The National Academies Press, pp. 187–
214. Available at: https://doi.org/10.17226/25064.
Mathers, C., and others (2023). Age-Sex Patterns of Crisis Deaths: Towards a more standard mortality
estimation approach. Working paper, United Nations Children’s Fund, New York, 2023. Available at:
https://data.unicef.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/UN-IGME-Working-Paper.-Age-sex-
Patterns-of-Crisis-Deaths.pdf.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division
47

--- Page 62 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Msemburi, W., and others (2023). The WHO estimates of excess mortality associated with the COVID-19
pandemic. Nature, vol. 613, No. 7942, pp. 130–137. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-
022-05522-2.
Pino, V. A., and others (2020). The effects of aging on semen parameters and sperm DNA fragmentation.
JBRA Assisted Reproduction, vol. 30, No. 24 (1), pp. 82–86. Available at: https://doi.org/10.5935/1518-
0557.20190058.
Raymer, J., and others (2023). Modelling the Age and Sex Profiles of Net International Migration. Technical
Paper, No. UN DESA/POP/2023/TP/No. 7. New York: United Nations. Available at: https://www.un.org/
development/desa/pd/sites/www.un.org.development.desa.pd/files/undesa_pd_2023_tp_net_
migration.pdf.
Skirbekk, V. F., U. M. Staudinger and J. E. Cohen (2019). How to measure population aging? The answer
is less than obvious: A review. Gerontology, vol. 65, No. 2, pp. 136–144. Available at: https://doi.
org/10.1159/000494025.
Te Velde, E. R., and P. L. Pearson (2002). The variability of female reproductive ageing. Human Reproduction
Update, vol. 8, No. 2, pp. 141–154. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1093/humupd/8.2.141.
United Nations (2013). World Population Prospects: The 2012 Revision, CD-ROM Edition. Available at:
https://population.un.org/wpp/Download/Archive/Standard/.
__________ (2017). The impact of population momentum on future population growth. Population Facts,
No. 2017/4. Available at: https://population.un.org/wpp/Publications/Files/PopFacts_2017-4_
Population-Momentum.pdf.
__________ (2019). World Population Ageing 2019: Highlights. ST/ESA/SER.A/430. New York: United
Nations. Available at:
https://www.un.org/en/development/desa/population/publications/pdf/ageing/WorldPopulation
Ageing2019-Highlights.pdf.
__________ (2021). Global Population Growth and Sustainable Development. UN DESA/POP/2021/TR/
NO. 2. New York: United Nations. Available at: https://www.un.org/development/desa/pd/sites/www.
un.org.development.desa.pd/files/undesa_pd_2022_global_population_growth.pdf.
__________ (2022a). World Family Planning 2022: Meeting the changing needs for family planning:
Contraceptive use by age and method. UN DESA/POP/2022/TR/NO. 4. New York: United Nations.
Available at: https://www.un.org/development/desa/pd/sites/www.un.org.development.desa.pd/
files/files/documents/2023/Feb/undesa_pd_2022_world-family-planning.pdf
__________ (2022b). World Population Prospects 2022, Archive. New York: United Nations. Available at:
https://population.un.org/wpp/Download/Archive/Standard/.
__________ (2023a). World Social Report 2023: Leaving no one behind in an ageing world. ST/ESA/379.
New York: United Nations. Available at https://www.un.org/development/desa/pd/sites/www.un.org.
development.desa.pd/files/undesa_pd_2023_wsr-fullreport.pdf.
48 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 63 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
__________ (2023b). World Population Ageing 2023: Challenges and opportunities of population ageing
in the least developed countries. UN DESA/ POP/2023/TR/NO.5. New York: United Nations. Available
at: https://www.un.org/development/desa/pd/sites/www.un.org.development.desa.pd/files/
undesa_pd_2024_wpa2023-report.pdf.
__________ (2023c). Population Prospects of Countries in Special Situations: Tracking demographic change
among the least developed countries, landlocked developing countries and small island developing
States. UN DESA/POP/2023/TR/NO. 6. New York: United Nations. Available at: https://www.un.org/
development/desa/pd/sites/www.un.org.development.desa.pd/files/files/documents/2024/Jan/
undesa_pd_2024_report-countries-special-situations_web.pdf.
__________ (2024a). World Population Prospects 2024, Online Edition. Available at: https://population.
un.org/wpp/.
__________ (2024b). World Population Prospects 2024: Methodology of the United Nations population
estimates and projections. UN DESA/POP/2024/DC/NO.10. New York: United Nations. Available at:
https://population.un.org/wpp/.
__________ (2024c). International Migration and Sustainable Development. New York: United Nations.
(Forthcoming). Available at: https://population.un.org/wpp/.
Wittgenstein Centre for Demography and Global Human Capital (2018). Wittgenstein Centre Data Explorer
Version 2.0. Available at: https://dataexplorer.wittgensteincentre.org/wcde-v2/.
Wittgenstein Centre for Demography and Global Human Capital (2023). Wittgenstein Centre Data Explorer
Version 3.0. Available at: https://dataexplorer.wittgensteincentre.org/wcde-v3/.
World Health Organization (WHO) (2011). Preventing Gender-biased Sex Selection: An interagency statement-
OHCHR, UNFPA, UNICEF, UN Women and WHO. Geneva: World Health Organization. Available at: https://
www.unfpa.org/sites/default/files/resource-pdf/Preventing_gender-biased_sex_selection.pdf.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 49

--- Page 64 ---
A patient with age-related hearing loss at All Ears Cambodia (2023). Miguel Jeronimo/World Health Organization.

--- Page 65 ---
Annex 1: What’s new in WPP 2024?
In the previous edition of the World Population Prospects, published in 2022, several major methodological
enhancements were implemented to improve the standards, transparency and replicability of the estimates and
projections. Chief among these was a transition from the historical practice of estimating and projecting population
for five-year age groups over five-year periods of time towards a framework defined by single years of age and
one-year time intervals. Additional enhancements included: (1) a more systematic and comprehensive compilation
of national-level empirical data for the three components of population change (fertility, mortality and migration);
(2) the application of probabilistic models for estimating key indicators of fertility and mortality; (3) a new protocol
for evaluating and adjusting census population counts; (4) a new assessment of mortality associated with different
types of crises such as those due to conflicts, natural disasters and epidemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic;
(5) a new model life table system to estimate mortality for countries affected by HIV and AIDS; (6) the application
of standardized methods for estimating levels and patterns of net international migration; and (7) the upgrade of
probabilistic projection models of fertility and mortality to accommodate annual time series (see United Nations,
2022b).
The 2024 revision builds on the progress achieved in 2022 with further enhancements to the methods that underpin
the World Population Prospects. In the 2024 edition, the projections of net migration are probabilistic for the first time,
with the magnitude of past variability in annual net migration rates being incorporated into the uncertainty of the
migration projection for each country and adding additional uncertainty to the projection of total population (Azose
and Raftery, 2015; Azose, Ševčíková and Raftery, 2016). As a result, it is now possible to show how uncertainty
around future migration trends contributes to the overall uncertainty around future population trends and to compare
the uncertainty attributable to migration to that associated with future trends in fertility and mortality.
In addition, three new scenarios were introduced to consider the potential impact of changes in fertility rates among
adolescent women and girls, and several methodological refinements were implemented regarding the estimation of
age-specific fertility rates (Chao and others, 2023), the modelling of age and sex profiles of net international migration
(Raymer and others, 2023), additional options for smoothing mortality schedules over age and time, expanded use
of official population estimates as benchmark populations for estimating net international migration, refinements
of age-sex patterns of crisis-related deaths (Mathers and others, 2023) and an update of crisis-related mortality
estimates including a new category of deaths due to heat waves with information for 56 countries.
Compared to the 2022 revision, the medium scenario now uses the mean rather than the median of the Bayesian
posterior distribution for projected values of the total fertility rate and sex-specific life expectancy at birth. This
change increases the coherence between the deterministic medium projections and the probabilistic projections for
countries with highly skewed probabilistic distributions.
The quality of population estimates and projections hinges on the availability of reliable and timely demographic
data, including data collected through civil registration and vital statistics (CRVS) systems, population censuses,
population registers and household surveys. For the estimation period between 1950 and 2023, the 2024 edition
used data from 1,910 censuses, 79 more than in the 2022 revision. In some countries, population registers based on
administrative data systems provide the necessary information. Population data from censuses or registers referring
to 2019 or later were available for 114 countries and areas, representing 48 per cent of the 237 countries and areas
included in this analysis (and 54 per cent of the global population). For 100 countries and areas, the most recent
available population count was from the period 2009–2018. For the remaining 23 countries and areas, the most
recent available census data were from before 2009, that is, more than 15 years ago.
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division
51

--- Page 66 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Civil registration and vital statistics systems are the preferred source of information for computing statistics on levels
and trends in the fertility and mortality of a population, and for estimating changes in the size of a population and in
its distribution by age and sex between censuses. Information on births and deaths from civil registration and vital
statistics systems was available for 169 countries. Additionally, demographic indicators derived from 3,189 surveys
(423 more than in the 2022 revision) were considered in the present evaluation.
Among the 236 countries and areas with 1,000 inhabitants or more in 2023, all but 40 had available data on fertility
collected in 2019 or later. For 2023, 35 countries and areas had data on total and age-specific fertility, and an
additional six had data on the number of births.
Among the 236 countries and areas with 1,000 inhabitants or more in 2023, the most recent available data on child
mortality referred to 2019 or later for 184 countries and on adult mortality for 154 countries. The mortality estimates
considered the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic by incorporating estimates of excess mortality through 2021
produced by the WHO (Msemburi and others, 2023).20 Information on age- and sex-specific deaths coming from vital
registration systems with 90 per cent or higher completeness of registration was available for 2020 for 106 countries
covering 35 per cent of deaths worldwide, and for 2023 for five countries covering one per cent of deaths.
Table A1
Number of countries with data on age- and sex-specific deaths from “complete” vital registration (VR) for
years 2020 to 2023
Number of countries with 90 per cent or Proportion of total global deaths covered
higher death registration by complete VR (per cent)
2020 106 35
2021 100 30
2022 51 15
2023 5 1
Source: United Nations (2024b).
Notes: A registration system was considered sufficiently “complete” for use in this analysis (with adjustments, as appropriate) if it contained at least 90 per cent of deaths occurring
in the population. Describes the situation as of March 2024.
All components of the data information system for producing, documenting and presenting the World Population
Prospects were updated for the 2024 edition, including (a) an inventory of available data (DataCatalog), (b) a
repository (DataArchive) of input data sources, (c) a database (DemoData) to store and update the information
used in preparing estimates of population size and of the components of population change (fertility, mortality and
migration), (d) a structured set of metadata used for data analysis, statistical modelling and public documentation
(ShortNotes), and (e) a dissemination platform (DataPortal) to give access to all output and input data in tabular
form and to tools for creating interactive visualizations.
20 See https://www.who.int/data/sets/global-excess-deaths-associated-with-covid-19-modelled-estimates.
52 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 67 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Annex 2: Selected indicators
Table A2
Total population for the world, groups by timing of the peak, countries and areas, estimates for 1995,
projections (medium scenario), 2024, 2054 and 2100, and year of population peak (1 January, in thousands)
Total population (thousands) Population peak
Groups, countries and
areas Total
1995 2024 2054 2100 Year population
(thousands)
World 5,717,157 8,126,964 9,796,364 10,186,608 2084 10,289,515
Populations that peaked by
2024 2,055,112 2,265,404 1,955,783 1,189,942 2020 2,282,063
Sub-Saharan Africa (peaked
by 2024) 1,160 1,278 1,076 588 2015 1,298
Mauritius 1,153 1,273 1,072 586 2015 1,292
Saint Helena 6 5 4 3 1987 7
Northern Africa and Western
Asia (peaked by 2024) 8,303 6,792 6,066 4,676 1990 9,002
Armenia 3,321 2,984 2,437 1,698 1992 3,645
Georgia 4,982 3,808 3,630 2,978 1989 5,519
Eastern and South-Eastern
Asia (peaked by 2024) 1,471,600 1,699,105 1,456,627 795,639 2021 1,707,538
China 1,214,590 1,420,909 1,221,005 638,685 2021 1,426,776
China, Hong Kong SAR 6,111 7,433 5,789 2,106 2020 7,491
China, Taiwan Province of
China 21,447 23,264 18,717 10,077 2020 23,680
Japan 125,516 124,071 102,763 77,038 2010 128,202
Republic of Korea 45,252 51,738 43,416 22,007 2021 51,891
Thailand 58,683 71,689 64,937 45,726 2022 71,755
Latin America and the
Caribbean (peaked by 2024) 21,589 21,712 18,085 10,755 2010 22,422
Cuba 10,907 11,001 9,083 5,607 2012 11,304
Curaçao 153 185 171 121 2019 194
Dominica 69 66 63 49 1981 73
Guadeloupe 408 376 317 245 1999 422
Jamaica 2,488 2,840 2,365 1,076 2024 2,840
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 53

--- Page 68 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Total population (thousands) Population peak
Groups, countries and
areas Total
1995 2024 2054 2100 Year population
(thousands)
Martinique 400 345 273 210 1999 424
Montserrat 9 4 4 3 1950 13
Puerto Rico 3,680 3,244 2,377 1,007 2001 3,814
Saint Kitts and Nevis 42 47 43 30 1960 56
Saint Martin (French part) 29 27 19 20 2014 37
St. Vincent and the
Grenadines 113 101 87 64 2001 114
United States Virgin Islands 107 85 70 62 2000 109
Falkland Islands (Malvinas) 3 3 3 2 2018 4
Uruguay 3,181 3,387 3,211 2,257 2021 3,400
Oceania (excluding Australia
and New Zealand) (peaked
by 2024) 198 175 141 126 2001 228
American Samoa 52 47 37 32 2002 57
Cook Islands 18 14 9 8 1972 21
Marshall Islands 48 38 25 24 2011 52
Niue 2 2 2 2 1967 5
Northern Mariana Islands 47 45 43 42 2001 69
Palau 17 18 15 11 2005 20
Wallis and Futuna Islands 14 11 10 7 2003 15
Europe, Northern America,
Australia and New Zealand
(peaked by 2024) 552,262 536,343 473,788 378,156 1992 552,490
Albania 3,264 2,802 2,162 1,193 1992 3,284
Austria 7,946 9,125 8,620 7,407 2023 9,136
Belarus 10,213 9,086 7,220 4,376 1994 10,247
Bermuda 59 65 55 36 2022 65
Bosnia and Herzegovina 3,649 3,176 2,355 1,374 1992 4,462
54 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 69 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Total population (thousands) Population peak
Groups, countries and
areas Total
1995 2024 2054 2100 Year population
(thousands)
Bulgaria 8,390 6,778 5,235 3,544 1989 8,991
Croatia 4,648 3,889 3,144 2,150 1991 4,842
Czechia 10,320 10,792 9,714 8,239 2023 10,828
Estonia 1,463 1,367 1,150 828 1991 1,570
Germany 81,877 84,696 77,403 70,917 2024 84,696
Greece 10,494 10,137 8,617 6,296 2011 11,128
Greenland 56 56 49 37 2005 57
Hungary 10,332 9,690 8,616 7,469 1980 10,702
Isle of Man 71 84 76 58 2012 84
Italy 57,659 59,435 50,483 35,496 2014 60,689
Kosovo (under UNSC res.
1244) 2,121 1,691 1,620 1,101 1998 2,211
Latvia 2,502 1,880 1,467 930 1990 2,665
Lithuania 3,641 2,867 2,176 1,217 1992 3,704
Montenegro 631 639 518 328 2024 639
North Macedonia 1,992 1,828 1,465 868 2006 2,091
Poland 38,367 38,712 31,918 19,430 2023 38,814
Portugal 10,015 10,431 9,641 8,756 2010 10,583
Republic of Moldova 4,426 3,053 2,278 1,495 1992 4,458
Romania 22,711 19,068 15,604 10,810 1991 22,953
Russian Federation 148,382 145,206 135,151 126,439 1992 149,580
Saint Pierre and Miquelon 6 6 4 2 1995 6
San Marino 25 34 33 31 2021 35
Serbia 7,831 6,758 5,385 3,716 1988 7,885
Slovakia 5,350 5,520 4,839 3,439 2024 5,520
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 55

--- Page 70 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Total population (thousands) Population peak
Groups, countries and
areas Total
1995 2024 2054 2100 Year population
(thousands)
Slovenia 1,988 2,119 1,952 1,634 2024 2,119
Spain 39,959 47,916 44,100 33,216 2024 47,916
Ukraine 51,873 37,441 30,736 15,323 1993 52,422
Populations peaking between
2025-2054 609,034 823,087 870,099 692,105 2047 874,987
Sub-Saharan Africa (peaking
between 2025-2054) 1,197 1,529 1,645 1,389 2050 1,650
Cabo Verde 414 524 566 419 2052 566
Réunion 705 877 939 854 2050 942
Seychelles 78 129 141 116 2043 143
Northern Africa and Western
Asia (peaking between 2025-
2054) 78,164 111,269 116,593 87,674 2048 117,266
Azerbaijan 7,663 10,305 11,214 10,038 2051 11,225
Cyprus 854 1,352 1,510 1,278 2052 1,510
Tunisia 9,093 12,240 13,138 10,691 2052 13,148
Türkiye 60,554 87,372 90,731 65,667 2047 91,432
Central and Southern Asia
(peaking between 2025-
2054) 79,823 114,942 127,674 102,316 2053 127,695
Bhutan 552 789 883 693 2052 884
Iran (Islamic Republic of) 61,876 91,115 101,992 80,314 2053 102,001
Sri Lanka 17,394 23,038 24,800 21,309 2051 24,815
Eastern and South-Eastern
Asia (peaking between 2025-
2054) 140,226 187,987 200,333 165,831 2047 201,413
China, Macao SAR 394 719 650 333 2032 728
Dem. People's Rep. of
Korea 22,554 26,460 25,437 19,576 2032 26,802
Myanmar 42,333 54,320 58,504 49,784 2049 58,636
Singapore 3,471 5,812 6,029 4,183 2040 6,196
Viet Nam 71,474 100,675 109,713 91,954 2050 110,021
56 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 71 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Total population (thousands) Population peak
Groups, countries and
areas Total
1995 2024 2054 2100 Year population
(thousands)
Latin America and the
Caribbean (peaking between
2025-2054) 256,809 343,830 358,054 273,986 2045 361,829
Anguilla 10 15 14 9 2036 15
Antigua and Barbuda 67 94 94 68 2039 97
Argentina 34,845 45,618 48,213 38,406 2050 48,312
Aruba 75 108 98 75 2026 108
Bahamas 299 400 424 385 2050 424
Barbados 262 282 260 195 2028 283
Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and
Saba 13 30 35 28 2046 35
Brazil 160,497 211,574 215,723 163,966 2042 219,328
British Virgin Islands 18 39 40 28 2039 41
Chile 14,422 19,714 20,112 13,508 2041 20,544
Colombia 35,474 52,610 59,325 47,251 2051 59,387
Costa Rica 3,493 5,118 5,312 3,795 2045 5,382
El Salvador 5,739 6,324 6,641 5,095 2048 6,670
Grenada 104 117 112 74 2032 117
Saint Barthélemy 6 11 13 9 2048 13
Saint Lucia 147 180 169 109 2032 181
Sint Maarten (Dutch part) 32 43 51 42 2051 51
Trinidad and Tobago 1,292 1,506 1,369 903 2028 1,515
Turks and Caicos Islands 15 46 51 39 2049 51
Oceania (excluding Australia
and New Zealand) (peaking
between 2025-2054) 1,017 1,208 1,282 1,070 2049 1,285
Fiji 797 927 1,002 882 2054 1,002
French Polynesia 220 281 281 188 2041 289
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 57

--- Page 72 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Total population (thousands) Population peak
Groups, countries and
areas Total
1995 2024 2054 2100 Year population
(thousands)
Europe, Northern America,
Australia and New Zealand
(peaking between 2025-
2054) 51,798 62,321 64,518 59,839 2045 64,846
Andorra 64 81 80 48 2036 86
Belgium 10,131 11,728 11,818 11,070 2045 11,902
Denmark 5,216 5,964 6,111 5,867 2043 6,136
Finland 5,099 5,612 5,299 4,609 2026 5,624
Guernsey 59 64 62 53 2031 65
Iceland 267 391 433 363 2050 433
Ireland 3,597 5,227 5,977 5,298 2053 5,977
Jersey 86 104 104 100 2043 105
Malta 383 536 528 361 2034 557
Netherlands 15,528 18,166 18,871 17,525 2042 19,066
Norway 4,348 5,550 5,895 5,420 2051 5,900
Switzerland 7,019 8,898 9,338 9,124 2052 9,344
Populations growing through
2054 3,053,011 5,038,473 6,970,482 8,304,561 Beyond 2100 8,309,705
Sub-Saharan Africa (growing
through 2054) 563,007 1,224,913 2,206,340 3,342,751 Beyond 2100 3,356,227
Angola 13,469 37,313 79,935 149,486 Beyond 2100 150,605
Benin 6,152 14,288 25,804 39,506 Beyond 2100 39,669
Botswana 1,480 2,501 3,533 3,840 2088 3,886
Burkina Faso 10,253 23,286 38,929 49,846 Beyond 2100 49,863
Burundi 6,029 13,875 25,432 37,823 Beyond 2100 37,925
Cameroon 12,881 28,748 54,226 88,622 Beyond 2100 89,130
Central African Republic 3,308 5,240 11,382 18,743 Beyond 2100 18,816
Chad 6,896 19,870 41,589 69,387 Beyond 2100 69,706
58 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 73 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Total population (thousands) Population peak
Groups, countries and
areas Total
1995 2024 2054 2100 Year population
(thousands)
Comoros 486 859 1,367 1,908 Beyond 2100 1,914
Congo 2,710 6,258 11,686 19,957 Beyond 2100 20,094
Côte d'Ivoire 14,566 31,548 59,288 103,651 Beyond 2100 104,435
Dem. Republic of the Congo 43,873 107,516 235,083 429,293 Beyond 2100 432,126
Djibouti 627 1,161 1,570 1,841 Beyond 2100 1,842
Equatorial Guinea 560 1,870 3,308 4,992 Beyond 2100 5,014
Eritrea 1,929 3,502 5,982 8,433 Beyond 2100 8,456
Eswatini 960 1,236 1,523 1,345 2063 1,541
Ethiopia 56,576 130,355 237,759 366,401 Beyond 2100 368,178
Gabon 1,109 2,512 4,305 6,882 Beyond 2100 6,925
Gambia 1,246 2,729 4,485 5,703 Beyond 2100 5,703
Ghana 17,194 34,108 52,469 67,500 Beyond 2100 67,595
Guinea 7,441 14,582 24,486 31,996 Beyond 2100 32,018
Guinea-Bissau 1,108 2,177 3,588 4,662 Beyond 2100 4,669
Kenya 26,233 55,884 86,531 104,215 2098 104,235
Lesotho 1,940 2,324 3,061 3,263 2083 3,313
Liberia 2,115 5,553 9,303 12,653 Beyond 2100 12,677
Madagascar 13,827 31,578 56,083 85,155 Beyond 2100 85,527
Malawi 10,050 21,376 39,479 59,016 Beyond 2100 59,266
Mali 10,076 24,122 49,209 79,202 Beyond 2100 79,506
Mauritania 2,287 5,097 10,036 17,066 Beyond 2100 17,171
Mayotte 119 321 695 1,369 Beyond 2100 1,382
Mozambique 15,695 34,130 67,427 104,153 Beyond 2100 104,541
Namibia 1,580 2,998 4,692 5,895 Beyond 2100 5,901
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 59

--- Page 74 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Total population (thousands) Population peak
Groups, countries and
areas Total
1995 2024 2054 2100 Year population
(thousands)
Niger 9,551 26,592 56,128 90,650 Beyond 2100 90,989
Nigeria 109,367 230,271 374,118 476,693 Beyond 2100 476,803
Rwanda 5,394 14,106 23,724 32,744 Beyond 2100 32,815
Sao Tome and Principe 134 233 382 533 Beyond 2100 535
Senegal 8,737 18,288 31,940 46,933 Beyond 2100 47,096
Sierra Leone 4,185 8,553 13,440 15,945 2093 16,011
Somalia 7,125 18,686 39,824 67,221 Beyond 2100 67,507
South Africa 44,219 63,628 80,774 94,206 Beyond 2100 94,423
South Sudan 5,162 11,820 19,058 23,838 Beyond 2100 23,844
Togo 4,324 9,412 16,442 26,225 Beyond 2100 26,376
Uganda 20,438 49,332 89,888 120,825 Beyond 2100 120,846
United Republic of Tanzania 30,019 67,578 138,965 261,694 Beyond 2100 263,975
Zambia 8,680 21,018 40,336 64,307 Beyond 2100 64,640
Zimbabwe 10,894 16,478 27,076 37,132 Beyond 2100 37,202
Northern Africa and Western
Asia (growing through 2054) 236,825 458,912 693,377 894,223 Beyond 2100 895,956
Algeria 28,185 46,497 60,890 64,547 2091 65,116
Bahrain 586 1,588 2,204 3,080 Beyond 2100 3,100
Egypt 64,969 115,578 166,533 201,847 Beyond 2100 201,944
Iraq 20,484 45,558 75,060 100,564 Beyond 2100 100,734
Israel 5,284 9,322 13,625 19,700 Beyond 2100 19,794
Jordan 4,664 11,531 16,890 21,306 Beyond 2100 21,340
Kuwait 1,662 4,884 6,555 9,564 Beyond 2100 9,640
Lebanon 3,924 5,786 7,083 7,204 2080 7,458
Libya 4,866 7,343 9,429 9,793 2087 9,971
Morocco 26,194 37,901 43,659 38,001 2058 43,737
60 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 75 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Total population (thousands) Population peak
Groups, countries and
areas Total
1995 2024 2054 2100 Year population
(thousands)
Oman 2,102 5,165 8,154 12,055 Beyond 2100 12,135
Qatar 507 3,012 4,336 7,236 Beyond 2100 7,309
Saudi Arabia 13,019 33,661 49,454 70,784 Beyond 2100 71,230
State of Palestine 2,582 5,450 8,817 11,479 Beyond 2100 11,486
Sudan 24,354 50,049 89,991 136,603 Beyond 2100 137,178
Syrian Arab Republic 14,416 24,175 38,890 43,719 2086 44,159
United Arab Emirates 2,381 10,839 15,990 26,015 Beyond 2100 26,253
Western Sahara 205 585 792 832 2089 837
Yemen 16,444 39,987 75,026 109,894 Beyond 2100 110,177
Central and Southern Asia
(growing through 2054) 1,297,934 2,020,052 2,530,980 2,540,895 2075 2,644,949
Afghanistan 16,713 42,045 81,508 129,941 Beyond 2100 130,493
Bangladesh 121,477 172,507 218,178 209,120 2071 226,139
India 950,632 1,444,436 1,690,865 1,509,107 2062 1,701,356
Kazakhstan 16,867 20,464 27,283 33,638 Beyond 2100 33,707
Kyrgyzstan 4,678 7,131 9,908 11,729 Beyond 2100 11,731
Maldives 254 527 595 476 2058 597
Nepal 21,993 29,674 35,077 31,927 2067 35,802
Pakistan 132,588 249,336 387,300 510,572 Beyond 2100 511,429
Tajikistan 5,884 10,492 16,133 20,199 Beyond 2100 20,204
Turkmenistan 4,155 7,431 9,817 9,961 2079 10,282
Uzbekistan 22,694 36,010 54,315 74,226 Beyond 2100 74,474
Eastern and South-Eastern
Asia (growing through 2054) 306,035 463,627 541,320 494,764 2061 543,704
Brunei Darussalam 288 461 521 466 2055 521
Cambodia 9,627 17,533 22,310 22,769 2078 23,388
Indonesia 198,237 282,354 322,031 296,074 2059 322,609
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 61

--- Page 76 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Total population (thousands) Population peak
Groups, countries and
areas Total
1995 2024 2054 2100 Year population
(thousands)
Lao People's Dem. Republic 4,870 7,718 9,906 9,280 2068 10,167
Malaysia 20,073 35,344 44,981 44,087 2073 46,391
Mongolia 2,321 3,454 4,616 5,517 Beyond 2100 5,522
Philippines 69,763 115,371 135,018 114,596 2057 135,182
Timor-Leste 856 1,392 1,937 1,975 2077 2,093
Latin America and the
Caribbean (growing through
2054) 199,931 295,665 354,636 330,564 2067 360,149
Belize 201 414 522 449 2063 528
Bolivia (Plurinational State
of) 7,801 12,329 16,461 17,772 2087 17,910
Cayman Islands 32 74 107 118 2098 118
Dominican Republic 7,815 11,380 13,083 11,707 2061 13,154
Ecuador 11,481 18,058 21,529 19,148 2063 21,740
French Guiana 132 306 495 773 Beyond 2100 778
Guatemala 10,178 18,265 25,260 25,957 2078 27,155
Guyana 757 829 948 891 2067 960
Haiti 7,491 11,705 14,987 15,172 2076 15,724
Honduras 5,658 10,735 15,259 17,040 2090 17,136
Mexico 90,062 130,308 149,629 130,629 2059 149,941
Nicaragua 4,597 6,870 8,905 8,630 2072 9,237
Panama 2,697 4,487 5,723 5,911 2081 6,030
Paraguay 4,526 6,887 8,800 9,059 2078 9,287
Peru 24,118 34,035 41,013 38,247 2067 41,702
Suriname 425 632 740 710 2072 753
Venezuela (Bolivarian Re-
public of) 21,959 28,351 31,177 28,354 2057 31,215
62 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 77 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Total population (thousands) Population peak
Groups, countries and
areas Total
1995 2024 2054 2100 Year population
(thousands)
Oceania (excluding Australia
and New Zealand) (growing
through 2054) 5,938 12,667 18,585 22,789 Beyond 2100 22,806
Guam 149 167 194 206 2091 207
Kiribati 81 134 188 223 2100 223
Micronesia (Fed. States of) 110 113 128 128 2075 133
Nauru 10 12 16 21 Beyond 2100 21
New Caledonia 198 291 343 338 2067 348
Papua New Guinea 4,561 10,483 15,386 18,636 Beyond 2100 18,645
Samoa 174 217 281 383 Beyond 2100 384
Solomon Islands 379 810 1,366 1,847 Beyond 2100 1,851
Tokelau 2 2 4 4 2082 4
Tonga 100 104 106 118 2100 118
Tuvalu 9 10 10 12 Beyond 2100 12
Vanuatu 165 324 563 873 Beyond 2100 878
Europe, Northern America,
Australia and New Zealand
(growing through 2054) 443,341 562,636 625,243 678,574 Beyond 2100 679,339
Australia 17,990 26,581 33,228 43,035 Beyond 2100 43,252
Canada 29,304 39,538 46,142 53,525 Beyond 2100 53,700
Faroe Islands 44 55 64 63 2079 65
France 58,097 66,496 68,130 68,496 2096 68,533
Gibraltar 27 39 50 49 2070 51
Holy See 1 0 1 1 Beyond 2100 1
Liechtenstein 31 40 43 44 2100 44
Luxembourg 405 669 797 749 2062 801
Monaco 31 39 37 47 Beyond 2100 48
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division 63

--- Page 78 ---
World Population Prospects 2024 • Summary of Results
Total population (thousands) Population peak
Groups, countries and
areas Total
1995 2024 2054 2100 Year population
(thousands)
New Zealand 3,646 5,194 5,791 5,815 2078 5,868
Sweden 8,816 10,581 11,360 11,370 2080 11,433
United Kingdom 58,083 68,923 75,834 74,374 2073 76,072
United States of America 266,865 344,480 383,767 421,007 Beyond 2100 421,551
64 United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs • Population Division

--- Page 79 --- [sans texte]

--- Page 80 ---
World Population Prospects 2024: Summary of Results adopts the analytical framework of the demographic
transition—the historic shift towards longer lives and smaller families—approximated here by the timing at which
populations peak in size, to explore differences in population trends that characterise countries and regions today
and provide insight into their future trajectories. The report also offers policy recommendations to prepare countries
for a population size, age structure and spatial distribution that may differ appreciably from that of their recent past.
World Population Prospects 2024 is the twenty-eighth edition of the official United Nations population
estimates and projections. It presents population estimates from the 1950s to the present for 237 countries or
areas, underpinned by analyses of historical demographic trends. The 2024 revision also presents population
projections to the year 2100 that reflect a range of plausible outcomes at the global, regional and national levels.
ISBN 978-92-0-03169-1