[DOCUMENT : PAM_RDC_programmes_transferts_2026.pdf  5 pages]


--- Page 1 ---
Regional Bureau for Eastern Africa
2022 Regional Achievements and Outlook
April 2023
WFP/Arete/Fredrik
Lerneryd
Gender

--- Page 2 ---
WFP’s New Approach to Gender Programming:
Gender Transformative Approach
Gender Transformative Programming
Gender equality and women’s empowerment are key to achieving Zero Hunger. WFP works with
partners and governments to ensure everyone has equal opportunities, access to resources, and a
voice in the decisions that shape their households, communities, and food security. Women play a
vital role in the global food system, accounting for 60 percent to 80 percent of the total agricultural
workforce in East Africa; However, persistent gender inequalities within food systems are widely
documented and play a critical role in perpetuating food insecurity.
WFP’s new 2022 WFP Gender Policy aims to explicitly address the root causes of gender inequalities
by embracing gender transformative approaches. In line with this, WFP Regional Bureau for Eastern
Africa has begun to make the necessary shifts in gender programming, from gender sensitive
approaches to gender transformative approaches.
Gender transformative approaches focus on transforming unequal and harmful gender norms and
relations at a much deeper level compared to other approaches that have previously been applied.
The Gender transformative approaches challenge (and positively transform) entrenched gender
norms, biases, behaviours, values, and stereotypes to nurture meaningful gender equality that
is lasting and sustainable, including truly equitable shared power, control of resources, decision
making and support for women’s rights, agency, and empowerment.
Gender transformative work focuses on thinking beyond the individual woman or a group of
women, to understand and acknowledge the larger social systems these women live in and address
the root causes that perpetuate gender inequality in their lives. Such inequality can take many
forms, from household to institutional level, but all these forms have at their foundation a set of
fundamental beliefs, values, behaviours, and norms that create the problem of gender inequality in
the first place – and continue to perpetuate it over time, generation after generation.
The key objectives of the 2022 WFP Gender Policy
Achieve equitable Address the root causes Advance the economic
access to and control of gender inequalities empowerment of
over food security that affect food security women and girls in food
and nutrition and nutrition security and nutrition
The objectives of the policy are articulated through four
inter-connected and complementary priorities as listed below:
Enhanced Strengthened Transformative action Enhanced protection to
and equitable leadership and on social norms and ensure safety, dignity
participation decision making structural barriers and meaningful access
2022 Regional Achievements and Outlook Regional Bureau for Eastern Africa
2

--- Page 3 ---
Key Achievements
1. Evidence Generation to Inform Gender-based Programming
Better
Gender evidence-based programming was a priority for the Regional Bureau. WFP conducted
robust gender analysis for different programmes in South Sudan, Kenya and Rwanda. the analysis
helped to understand nuanced gender and power dynamics in communities and households, and
how these dynamics influence access to, benefits from, and participation in WFP activities and
interventions.
2. Job Creation for Youth at the Nexus of Gender, Food Systems
and Innovation
In 2022, WFP Regional Bureau for Eastern Africa began the operationalization of a 5 year-long
partnership with the Mastercard Foundation to strengthen food systems through job creation for
young people, particularly young women, in select agriculture value chains in Kenya, Rwanda and
Uganda. This programme has opened new opportunities for WFP to work with the youth at the
nexus of gender, food systems and innovation in a way that empowers smallholder farmers by
reducing post-harvest losses and increasing their access to markets, which will create employment
opportunities for young women and young men along the selected value chains.
To inform the programme design, supported countries commissioned gender-responsive value
chain analyses that sought to identify specific gender and age roles as well as barriers that
contribute to the economic exclusion of young women and young men in the agriculture sector.
Some of the key barriers identified include lack of access to/degree of control over assets (personal
assets, household assets, shared community assets); poor access to/degree of control over other
resources and opportunities (such as education and training); (iii) limited access to finance (such
as savings, credit, banking, and mobile money), start-up capital, financial literacy and business
development and management skills.
Moreover, the findings of the value chain analysis, dialogue sessions during integration workshops
with key stakeholders in Uganda and Kenya, field mission consultations with the youth in Kenya,
and existing literature on youth participation in agriculture from Rwanda recognized that the youth
are not a homogenous group. Critical intersectional variables such as age, marital status, disability
status, and socio-economic class affect how young women and young mean access resources,
participate in development activities and gain benefits from different undertakings in their
communities.
To address these barriers in programme implementation, WFP country offices are seeking to
partner with specialized gender transformation partners. These partners will support WFP and
other cooperating partners to adopt a gender transformative approach in the programme, applying
methodologies such as the Gender Action Learning Systems (GALS) that seeks to address the root
causes of gender inequalities by addressing unequal power relations at the household level, for
gender transformative results.
2022 Regional Achievements and Outlook Regional Bureau for Eastern Africa
3

--- Page 4 ---
3. Key International Events
International Women’s Day (8 March)
WFP joined the rest of the world in the celebration of International Women’s Day on 8 March
2022. An all-staff event was organized, and colleagues added voice to the global call to action
#BreakTheBias, challenging one another to collectively contribute to a world free of bias,
stereotypes and discrimination in the workplace.
The theme for the event was Gender Equality for a Sustainable Tomorrow, a salient topic for WFP as
a leading food systems actor. It was aimed at highlighting the role and participation of women in
climate solutions, while illuminating the fact that women and girls are disproportionately affected
by extreme climatic disasters.
16 Days of Activism Campaign against Gender-Based Violence
(25 November - 10 December)
WFP joined other UN agencies and partners to commemorate 16 days of activism against gender-
based violence (GBV), from 25 November (International Day of Violence against Women) to
December 10 (Human Rights Day). The theme for the campaign in 2022 was “UNITE! Activism to end
violence against women and girls”, the most pervasive violation of human rights worldwide.
WFP recognizes that food insecurity and GBV are deeply intertwined, and that gender inequality
and power dynamics are a root driver of food insecurity. The different needs and priorities of
women, girls, men and boys in our operations must be assessed, analyzed and addressed. The
regional gender and protection teams put together a staff debate session, inviting colleagues to
be champions against GBV by volunteering to debate motions on this topic. The all-staff debate
provided a great opportunity for colleagues to reflect on the topic of GBV- it’s various forms and
the role of WFP in preventing GBV in its programmes, and broaden their awareness and knowledge
of disability inclusion in response to the remarks made by WFP’s Global Disability Inclusion Advisor
who was in the region at the time of the event.
2022 Regional Achievements and Outlook Regional Bureau for Eastern Africa
4
WFP/Eulalia
Berlanga

--- Page 5 ---
Contact Information
Michael Dunford
Regional Director for Eastern Africa
Ryan Anderson
Senior Regional Programme Advisor Click here to view full report
RBN.reports@wfp.org
World Food Programme
Regional Bureau for Eastern Africa
wfp.org